In this regard, of ficers may consult the U.S. Department of Labor ’s (DOL) Occupational Outlook
Handbook (OOH)  and other reliable sources, such as DOL ’s Standard Occupational Classification
(SOC) system ,[10] in determining whether proposed job functions are consistent with those of a
scientific technician or technologist. Of ficers must consider all of the alien’ s documented training and
experience. In all cases, of ficers must evaluate eligibility for TN classification based on the primary
activity and not simply by the job title.
Neither the OOH nor the SOC, however , are specific to the requirements of the TN classification and
are not determinative. Instead, these references must be weighed considering all the facts presented.
3. Training or Education Required
The ST/T’ s theoretical knowledge in the specific discipline generally should have been acquired
through the successful completion of at least 2 years of training in a relevant educational program.
Such training may be documented by presentation of a diploma or certificate. An ST/T  is not required
to have a baccalaureate degree and may instead provide documentation of extensive work experience
directly related to the profession. USCIS weighs the lack of degree in consideration of the entire
record.
B. Other Specialty Occupations
1. Medical Laboratory T echnologist (Canada) and Medical T echnologist (Mexico and United
States)
An alien in this category must be seeking temporary entry to perform in a laboratory chemical,
biological, hematological, immunologic, microscopic, or bacteriological tests and analyses for
diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of diseases.[11] The alien must present the health care worker
certification described in this chapter .
2. Physician (T eaching or Research Only)
Foreign medical school graduates seeking temporary entry in this category may not engage in direct
patient care. Patient care incidental to teaching or research, however , is permissible.[12] To determine
if the patient care will be incidental, examples of relevant factors include, but are not limited to:
The amount of time spent in patient care relative to teaching or research;
Whether the physician receives compensation for patient care services;
Whether the salary of fer is so substantial in teaching or research that direct patient care is
unlikely; and
Whether the physician will have a recurring or scheduled patient load.
3. Registered Nurses8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 636/2618