The protected person must change their address for each individual form they have filed with USCIS.
The filing of a subsequent benefit request with a new address does not automatically update the
address for the prior filing.
F. Asylees and Refugees
1. Confidentiality Provisions
Federal regulations generally prohibit the disclosure to third parties of information contained in or
pertaining to asylum applications, credible fear determinations, and reasonable fear determinations.
[37] This includes information contained in the legacy Refugee Asylum and Parole System (RAPS) or
the legacy Asylum Pre-Screening System (APSS), and Global System (the 2018 replacement for
RAPS/APSS) or related information as displayed in CIS2 and PCQS, except under certain limited
circumstances. As a matter of policy , the confidentiality protections in these regulations are extended
to Registration for Classification as Refugee (Form I-590), Refugee/Asylee Relative Petitions ( Form I-
730), and Applications for Suspension of Deportation or Special Rule Cancellation of Removal
(Pursuant to Section 203 of Public Law 105-100 (NACARA)) ( Form I-881 ).
These regulations safeguard information that, if disclosed publicly , could subject the claimant to
retaliatory measures by government authorities or non-state actors in the event the claimant is
repatriated. Such disclosure could also endanger the security of the claimant’ s family members who
may still be residing in the country of origin.
Moreover , public disclosure might give rise to a plausible protection claim by the claimant where one
would not otherwise exist. This is because such disclosure may bring an otherwise ineligible claimant
to the attention of the government authority or non-state actor against which the claimant has made
allegations of mistreatment.
2. Breach of Confidentiality
Confidentiality is breached when the unauthorized disclosure of information contained in or pertaining
to, these protected classes allows the third party to link the identity of the applicant to:
The fact that the applicant or petitioner has applied for asylum or refugee status;
Specific facts or allegations pertaining to the individual asylum or refugee claim contained in an
asylum or refugee application; or
Facts or allegations that are suf ficient to give rise to a reasonable inference that the applicant
has applied for asylum or refugee status.
The same principles generally govern the disclosure of information related to credible fear and
reasonable fear determinations, and applications for withholding or deferral of removal under Article 3
of the Convention Against Torture, which are encompassed within the Application for Asylum and for
Withholding of Removal ( Form I-589 ). As a matter of policy , USCIS extends the regulatory safeguards8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 185/2618