An of ficer may refer a proposed revocation of civil surgeon designation to USCIS counsel for review .
When referring a case to USCIS counsel, the of ficer should include the reasons for the intended
revocation and a copy of the supporting evidence.  
Once the decision has been made to initiate the revocation, the of ficer must serve the physician with a
notice of intent to revoke by Certified Mail/Return Receipt Requested or other method that provides
proof of delivery . The notice must clearly state the exact grounds for the intended revocation and
include copies of any relevant evidence.[2] The of ficer must give the physician 30 days from the date
of the notice to respond with countervailing evidence. The physician may be represented by private
counsel at his or her own expense.[3]
3. Allegations of Malpractice, Breaches of Medical Ethics, and Other Improper Conduct
The authority to designate civil surgeons does not give USCIS authority to regulate the practice of
medicine. For this reason, the process for revoking designation as a civil surgeon is not the proper
forum for adjudicating complaints against a physician concerning malpractice, breach of medical
ethics, or other improper conduct. If USCIS receives a complaint of this kind, USCIS should advise the
complainant to make the complaint with the proper medical licensing authority for the State or territory
in which the physician practices. 
4. Decision
Once the period for the physician’ s response to the notice of intent to revoke has expired, USCIS
reviews the record and decide whether to revoke the physician’ s designation as a civil surgeon. Any
response from the physician is included in the record of proceeding. USCIS must notify the physician
in writing of the decision. 
There is no administrative appeal from a decision to revoke a physician’ s designation as a civil
surgeon. The physician may , however , file a motion to reopen or reconsider .[4] A decision revoking a
physician’ s designation as a civil surgeon must notify the physician of the right to file a timely motion to
reopen or reconsider .
Similarly , USCIS may reopen and reconsider a decision on its own motion. A physician whose civil
surgeon designation is revoked is not precluded from reapplying for civil surgeon designation, but the
ground(s) upon which revocation is based should be considered as part of the adjudication of a
subsequent application for civil surgeon designation. A physician, however , whose prior civil surgeon
designation was revoked based on confirmed involvement in an immigration benefits fraud scheme
will be denied civil surgeon designation upon reapplication. 
If USCIS revokes a physician’ s designation as a civil surgeon, the public civil surgeon list should be
updated immediately to remove the civil surgeon’ s information.[5]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1947/2618