1. Nonimmigrants and TPS Applicants
In general, nonimmigrant visa applicants, nonimmigrants seeking change or extension of status,
and Temporary Protected Status (TPS) applicants are only medically examined if the consular of ficer
or immigration of ficer has concerns as to the applicant’ s inadmissibility on health-related
grounds. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) of ficers at ports-of-entry may also require a
nonimmigrant arriving with or without a visa to submit to a medical examination to determine whether
a medical ground of inadmissibility applies.
2. K or V V isa Applicants Applying with DOS[25]
While the consular of ficer may encourage compliance, the consular of ficer cannot deny a K or V visa
for lack of compliance with the vaccination requirements. 
Some panel physicians may perform the vaccination assessment in anticipation of the applicant’ s later
adjustment of status application.
3. Nonimmigrants Applying for Change of Status to V Status
For nonimmigrants applying for change of status to V status, the civil surgeon may perform the
vaccination assessment in anticipation of the applicant’ s later adjustment of status application.
4. K or V Nonimmigrants Applying for Adjustment[26]
K and V nonimmigrants applying for adjustment of status are not required to repeat the medical
examination if the application was filed within one year of the date of the original medical examination,
and:
The medical examination did not reveal a Class A medical condition; or
The applicant received a conditional waiver in conjunction with the K or V nonimmigrant visa or
the change of status to V and the applicant submits evidence of compliance with the waiver
terms and conditions.[27]
If a new medical examination is required and reveals a Class A medical condition, a new waiver
application will also be required. In such cases, the of ficer should determine whether the applicant
complied with the terms and conditions of the first waiver , if applicable. Such determination should be
given considerable weight in the adjudication of a subsequent waiver application.[28]
Even if a new medical examination is not required, applicants must still comply with the vaccination
requirements if the vaccination record was not included as part of the original medical examination
report. If the vaccination report was properly completed at the time of the overseas examination, the
officer may accept the vaccination assessment completed by the panel physician. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1894/2618