Date Event
January 1, 2000An employer files a permanent labor certification application on behalf of
the alien. The alien is unmarried at time of filing.
January 1, 2002 The alien marries an alien and has a child.
January 1, 2004The employment-based immigrant visa petition filed on the alien’ s behalf is
approved. The alien applies for adjustment of status, as do the spouse
and child.
As a principal beneficiary of the qualifying permanent labor certification application, the alien is
grandfathered and eligible to file for adjustment under INA 245(i) . Because the alien married and had
the child after the qualifying application was filed, the spouse and child are not grandfathered
derivative beneficiaries and may not adjust in their own right under 245(i). The spouse and child,
however , may still seek INA 245(i)  adjustment (or INA 245(a)  adjustment, if eligible) as the principal
beneficiary’ s accompanying (or following-to-join) spouse and child under INA  203(d).
Eligibility of Grandfathered Principal Beneficiary’ s Spouse or Child
The following chart provides a summary of whether the spouse or child of a grandfathered principal
beneficiary may be grandfathered in his or her own right or eligible to accompany or follow to join the
grandfathered principal beneficiary .
245(i) Adjustment Eligibility of Grandfathered Principal Beneficiary’ s Spouse or Child
When W as
Relationship
Established?Eligible as an Accompanying
or Following-to-Join
Applicant?Eligible as a Grandfathered
Derivative Beneficiary Who May
Apply to Adjust Under INA  245(i)
Independently from Principal?
Before the qualifying
petition or application
was filed (on or before
April 30, 2001)Yes, if relationship continues to
exist and principal beneficiary
is granted LPR status (and
remains an LPR)Yes, on a dif ferent basis, whether or
not relationship to principal beneficiary
continues to exist[50]
After April 30, 2001 but
before principal
beneficiary adjusts
statusYes, if relationship continues to
exist and principal beneficiary
is granted LPR status (and
remains an LPR)No
After principal
beneficiary adjusts
statusNo No
2. Grandfathered Derivative Beneficiary’ s Spouse and Children8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1613/2618