A person born in the United States who is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is a U.S.
citizen at birth, to include a child born to a member of an Indian, Eskimo, Aleutian, or other aboriginal
tribe.[1]
In general, a person born outside of the United States may acquire citizenship at birth if all of the
following requirements are met at the time of the person’ s birth:
The person is a child[2] of a U.S. citizen parent(s);
The U.S. citizen parent meets certain residence or physical presence requirements in the United
States or an outlying possession before the person’ s birth in accordance with the applicable
provision;[3] and
The person meets all other applicable requirements under either INA 301 or INA 309.
Until the Act of October 10, 1978, persons who had acquired U.S. citizenship through birth outside of
the United States to one U.S. citizen parent had to meet certain physical presence requirements to
retain their citizenship. This legislation eliminated retention requirements for persons who were born
after October 10, 1952. There may be cases where a person who was born before that date, and
therefore subject to the retention requirements, may have failed to retain citizenship.[4]
An of ficer should determine whether a person acquired citizenship at birth by referring to the
applicable statutory provisions and conditions that existed at the time of the person’ s birth. These
provisions have been modified extensively over the years.[5] In some cases, an of ficer may need to
determine whether an applicant’ s parent or grandparent acquired citizenship before the of ficer can
determine whether the applicant acquired citizenship. Of ficers may request additional evidence
needed to establish the U.S. citizenship of the applicant’ s parent or grandparent. The following
sections provide the current law .
B. Child Born in W edlock
USCIS must determine whether a child is born in wedlock[6] or out of wedlock at the time of birth in
order to determine which citizenship provision is applicable.[7]
USCIS considers a child to be born in wedlock when the legal parents are married to one another at
the time of the child’ s birth and at least one of the legal parents has a genetic or gestational
relationship to the child.
USCIS views post-birth formalization of the legal relationship between a parent and a child as
establishing the relationship from the time of the child’ s birth. This is because the relevant jurisdiction’ s
recognition of the legal relationship between the parent and child is based on the circumstances of the
child’ s conception and birth, including, for example, the existence of a valid surrogacy contract
memorializing all parties’  understanding of parental rights pre-conception. This rule applies unless
otherwise specified in the law of the relevant jurisdiction or in the applicable court order .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2471/2618