F-2 dependents of an F-1 student who is unable to complete the student’ s course of study by the
program end date on the Form I-20  do not need to apply for an extension of stay if they were admitted
for duration of status. If the Designated School Of ficial (DSO) grants an extension of stay for the F-1
student, the DSO updates the Student and Exchange V isitor Information System (SEVIS) for both the
F-1 student and their F-2 dependents.
2. M-2 Dependents
M-2 dependents are admitted for the fixed period of stay for which M-1 students are admitted.[3] If
USCIS grants an extension to members of a family group, all members are granted the same period of
time, with the shortest period of time granted to any member applying to all.
If USCIS grants an application for an extension, the M-1 student and the student’ s M-2 dependent
family members, if applicable, are given an extension of stay for the period of time necessary to
complete the course of study , plus 30 days within which to depart from the United States. The period
of stay may not exceed a total period of 1 year , or the date a dependent loses eligibility for M-2 status
(for example, the date an M-2 child turns 21), whichever is less.
E. Change of Status
Any spouse and minor children of the student who wish to change their status to F-2 dependent status
must file their change of status (COS) application on Form I-539  while their current nonimmigrant
status is valid and unexpired. Of ficers must review the expiration date of the applicant’ s nonimmigrant
status as indicated on the applicant’ s Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94) or other relevant
documents to make this determination.
If USCIS denies the principal nonimmigrant’ s COS application, of ficers must deny any dependent’ s
COS application.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 214.2(f)(3)  and 8 CFR 214.2(m)(3) .
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 214.2(f)(15)(ii)(A)(1)  (“[S]tudy at an undergraduate college or university or at a
community college or junior college is not a full course of study solely because the F-2 nonimmigrant
is engaging in a lesser course load to complete a course of study during the current term. An F-2
spouse or F-2 child enrolled in less than a full course of study is not eligible to engage in
employment.”). See 8 CFR 214.2(m)(17)(ii)(A)(1)  (“[S]tudy at an undergraduate college or university or
at a community college or junior college is not a full course of study solely because the M-2
nonimmigrant is engaging in a lesser course load to complete a course of study during the current
term. An M-2 spouse or M-2 child enrolled in less than a full course of study is not eligible to engage in
employment.”).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 430/2618