Process General Principles
OrphanGenerally for U.S. citizens adopting children who are not habitually resident in a
Hague Adoption Convention country .
Family-Based
PetitionOpen to both U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents (LPRs) of the United
States.
A U.S. citizen cannot, however , use the family-based petition process for a child
that is from a Hague Adoption Convention country unless they can establish that
the Convention does not apply .
A. Hague Adoption Convention[2]
1. Applicability
The petitioner must follow the Hague Adoption Convention process if:[3]
The petitioner is a U.S. citizen who is habitually resident in the United States; and
The petitioner seeks to adopt a child who is habitually resident in a Hague Adoption Convention
country (other than the United States) based on an adoption occurring on or after April 1, 2008,
and on or after the Hague Adoption Convention entered into force in the other country .[4]
If the child is from a Hague Adoption Convention country , a U.S. citizen petitioner cannot pursue the
orphan or family-based petition process unless the petitioner establishes that the Hague Adoption
Convention does not apply . The U.S. Hague Adoption Convention process does not apply if:
USCIS determines that the U.S. citizen petitioner was not habitually resident in the United States
at the time of the adoption;
The child was not deemed to be habitually resident in a Hague Adoption Convention country at
the time of the adoption;
The petitioner was not a U.S. citizen at the time of the adoption;
The U.S. citizen petitioner completed the adoption before the Hague Adoption Convention went
into ef fect for the United States (April 1, 2008) or the other country;[5] or
The U.S. citizen petitioner filed an orphan-based adoption petition or application[6] whose period
of approval or extension had not expired before the date the Hague Adoption Convention went
into ef fect for the United States or the other country , provided that the laws of the child’ s country
of origin permits continuation under the orphan process.[7]
Habitual Residence Determinations - Prospective Adoptive Parent(s)8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 877/2618