In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 10 - An Overview of the Adjudication Process (External)
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
Those seeking immigration benefits in the United States must generally request benefits by filing the
appropriate USCIS form(s) with USCIS.[1] Proper submission of benefit requests provides USCIS the
opportunity to determine whether a person is initially eligible for the benefit requested and facilitates
an ef ficient management of requests.[2]
B. Background
With the Immigration Act of 1891, the federal government assumed direct control of inspecting,
admitting, rejecting, and processing all immigrants seeking admission to the United States.[3] On
January 2, 1892, the Immigration Service opened Ellis Island in New York Harbor . The Immigration
Service began collecting arrival manifests from each incoming ship. Inspectors then questioned
arrivals about their admissibility and noted their admission or rejection on the manifest records.[4]
Over the years, dif ferent federal government departments and of fices have adjudicated immigration
benefit requests. The process of submitting benefit requests has also changed over time. Today ,
requestors generally seek benefits from USCIS by submitting specific forms; the forms also help guide
requestors in collecting and submitting necessary evidence. USCIS uses forms to establish the record,
verify identity , and adjudicate the benefit request.
USCIS is primarily funded by immigration and naturalization benefit request fees charged to
requestors.[5] Fees collected from individuals and entities filing immigration benefit requests are
deposited into the Immigration Examinations Fee Account (IEF A). The fees collected are to ensure
recovery of the full cost of providing all USCIS services, including those provided without charge to
refugee, asylum, and certain other filers.
Form T ypes8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 207/2618