The determination whether an applicant is inadmissible for lack of having complied with the
vaccination requirement is made by reviewing the panel physician’ s or civil surgeon’ s vaccination
assessment in the medical examination report.[8]
C. Blanket W aiver for Missing V accination Documentation[9]
Applicants who received the vaccinations for which documents were missing when they initially
applied for adjustment of status or for an immigrant visa may be given a blanket waiver . 
A streamlined procedure applies for this waiver; no form is needed. If a required vaccine is lacking, the
officer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE). The RFE should instruct the applicant to return to
the civil surgeon for corrective action that demonstrates the applicant has received the required
vaccine(s). 
If the RFE response demonstrates that the missing vaccine(s) was received, the of ficer will deem the
waiver granted. No annotation is needed on either the medical exam form, or any related form or
worksheet.  
D. Blanket W aiver if V accine is Not Medically Appropriate[10] 
1. Situations Specified in the Law[11]
If the civil surgeon or the panel physician certifies that a vaccine is not medically appropriate for one or
more of the following reasons, the of ficer may grant a blanket waiver (without requesting a form and
fee):
The vaccine is not age appropriate;
The vaccine is contraindicated;
There is an insuf ficient time interval to complete the vaccination series; or 
It is not the flu season, or the vaccine for the specific flu strain is no longer available.
Once the civil surgeon or panel physician annotates that the vaccine(s) is not medically appropriate,
no further annotation is needed and the of ficer may proceed with granting the waiver . The civil
surgeon’ s or panel physician’ s annotation on the vaccination assessment suf ficiently documents that
the requirements for the waiver have been met; the of ficer does not need to make any
further annotation on the vaccination report. 
2. Nationwide V accination Shortage[12]
USCIS may grant a blanket waiver in the case of a vaccination shortage only if CDC recommends that
USCIS should do so, and USCIS has published the appropriate guidance on its website. CDC only
makes such a recommendation to USCIS after verifying that there is indeed a nationwide vaccination8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2154/2618