criteria when adjudicating a family-based petition if requirements are met for a written statement from
the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin.
D. Amended Orders
If the petitioner does not obtain a written statement from the Central Authority in the adoptee
beneficiary’ s country of origin until after the adoption is finalized, the petitioner must submit an
amended order that contains the required language and the Central Authority’ s written statement.
For purposes of the age, custody , and joint residence requirements,[21] the date of the adoption is the
date of the original order , not the amended order .
If a court amends an order after February 3, 2014 to meet the notice criteria, USCIS considers the
amended order not as the adoption order itself, but as a confirmation that the state court had
jurisdiction to make the original order when the court did so. The notice and amended order may
therefore be issued after an adoptee beneficiary’ s 16th birthday as long as the original adoption order
took place before the adoptee beneficiary’ s 16th birthday (or 18th birthday in the case of a qualifying
sibling).
If the petitioner(s) cannot obtain an amended order within the standard Request for Evidence (RFE)
response period, the petitioner must:
Submit all other requested evidence by the RFE response date, including a copy of the written
notice provided to the Central Authority of the country of origin; and
Request in writing that USCIS administratively close the family-based petition for up to 1 year .
USCIS may or may not grant the petitioner ’s request, depending on the circumstances of the case and
the evidence provided.
If the petition is administratively closed, once the petitioner obtains the amended order , the petitioner
may ask USCIS to reopen the case administratively without being required to file a Notice of Appeal or
Motion ( Form I-290B ). If the petitioner does not request to reopen the case within 1 year , USCIS
denies the petition.
Footnotes
[^ 1] For a list of countries that are party to the Hague Adoption Convention, see the U.S. Department
of State (DOS)’ s Convention Countries  webpage. For general information about determining if the
Hague Adoption Convention applies, see Part A, Adoptions Overview , Chapter 2, Adoption Processes
[5 USCIS-PM A.2]. For information about determining if the Hague Adoption Convention applies
specifically when the adoptee beneficiary is from a Hague Adoption Convention country and is present
in the United States based on an adoption, see Section A, Adoptee Beneficiary in the United States [ 5
USCIS-PM E.3(A) ].8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1029/2618