If USCIS identifies deficiencies in a Form N-648 , the alien must submit a new Form N-648.
When reviewing the form, the officer must:
Determine whether the form has been completed, certified, and signed by all appropriate
parties.
Ensure that the Form N-648  relates to the alien and that there are no significant discrepancies
between the form and other available information, including biographic data, testimony during
the interview , or information contained in the alien’ s A-file or record.
Determine whether the alien has met his or her burden to establish eligibility for the exception
by a preponderance of the evidence. This determination includes ensuring that the medical
professional’ s explanation is both suf ficiently detailed as well as specific to the alien and to the
alien’ s stated disability or impairment (rather than a generic, “one size fits all” explanation).
When reviewing the form, the officer should not:
Attempt to determine the validity of the medical diagnosis or second guess why this diagnosis
precludes the alien from complying with the English requirement, civics requirement, or both
requirements.
Request to see an alien’ s medical or prescription records solely to question whether there was
a proper basis for the medical professional’ s diagnosis unless evidence exists that creates
significant discrepancies that those records can help resolve. The of ficer may ask follow-up
questions to resolve any outstanding issues.
Require that an alien undergo specific medical, clinical, or laboratory diagnostic techniques,
tests, or methods.
Conclude that the alien has failed to meet the burden of proof solely because the alien did not
previously disclose the alleged medical condition in other immigration-related medical
examinations or documents. It is appropriate, however , to consider this as a factor when
determining the suf ficiency of the Form N-648 . The of ficer should always carefully examine the
evidence of record and ask follow-up questions to resolve any outstanding issues.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2377/2618