A new V isa Bulletin is published on a monthly basis. DOS posts two charts per visa preference
category in each month’ s DOS V isa Bulletin: 
Application Final Action Dates chart, which provides dates when visas may finally be issued;
and 
 Dates for Filing Applications chart, which provides the earliest dates when applicants may be
able to apply . 
In general, adjustment applicants must use the Application Final Action Dates chart to determine
whether a visa is available. However , if USCIS determines there are immigrant visas available for the
filing of additional adjustment applications, the Dates for Filing Applications chart may be used to
determine when to file an adjustment of status application with USCIS.[11] USCIS and DOS provide
information on which chart should be used in a particular month on the Adjustment of Status Filing
Charts from the V isa Bulletin  webpage and DOS Visa Bulletin . 
C. Concurrent Filings[12]
In general, the beneficiary of an immigrant visa petition may file for adjustment of status only after
USCIS has approved the petition and a visa is available. In certain instances, the beneficiary may file
an adjustment application together or concurrently with the underlying immigrant petition.
Concurrent filing of the adjustment application is possible only where approval of the underlying
immigrant petition would make a visa number immediately available. Concurrent filing of the
adjustment application is permitted in the following immigrant categories:
Family-based immigrants, including immediate relatives, and widow(er)s of a U.S. citizen;
Violence Against W omen Act (V AWA) self-petitioner;
Employment-based immigrants in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 5th preference categories;
Special immigrant Amerasians;
Special immigrant juveniles;
G-4 international organization employees, NA TO-6 employees, and certain family members; and
Certain members of the U.S. armed forces. 
D. Jurisdiction
USCIS has the legal authority to adjudicate most adjustment of status cases, including applications by
aliens who have been placed in deportation or removal proceedings as “arriving aliens.”[13] An
immigration judge (IJ) of the Executive Of fice for Immigration Review (EOIR) has jurisdiction in all
other cases where an applicant is in removal proceedings, even if the proceedings have been
administratively closed or if there is a final order of deportation or removal which has not yet been
executed.[14] As an exception to the general rule regarding “arriving aliens,” the IJ also has jurisdiction8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1442/2618