and Procedures, Part B, Submission of Benefit Requests, Chapter 6, Submitting Requests, Section A,
How to Submit [ 1 USCIS PM B.6(A) ].
Part C - Biometrics Collection and Security Checks
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures.
See more
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 10 - An Overview of the Adjudication Process (External)
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
As part of its administration of immigration benefits, USCIS has the general authority to require and
collect biometrics, which include fingerprints, photographs, and digital signatures, from any person[1]
seeking any immigration or naturalization benefit or request.[2]
B. Background
Biometrics collection allows USCIS to verify a person’ s identity , produce secure documents, and
facilitate required criminal and national security background checks to protect national security and
public safety , as well as to ensure that the person is eligible for the benefit sought. Biometrics
collection and security checks enhance national security and protect the integrity of the immigration
process by ensuring that USCIS only grants benefits to eligible requestors.
In addition, depending on the particular application, petition, or request filed, USCIS conducts security
checks, which may include conducting fingerprint-based background checks, requesting a name
check from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and other DHS or inter-agency security checks.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 251/2618