and those born out of wedlock, may also have retained formal means of legitimation (for example,
legitimation through the marriage of the parents).
In these cases, for purposes of former INA  321(a)(3), paternity was established by legitimation only if
legitimation was achieved through the formal af firmative act required by the law .[26] If such act did not
occur (for example, the child’ s parents never married), then paternity was not established by
legitimation, even if the country eliminated legal distinctions between legitimate and illegitimate
children. Therefore, in these cases, the child may have derived U.S. citizenship from the mother if all
other requirements were satisfied. The burden is on the applicant to establish the requirements for
derivative citizenship by a preponderance of evidence.[27]
Retention of U.S. Citizenship
A child who derived U.S. citizenship because the child’ s mother naturalized and paternity had not been
established by legitimation does not lose citizenship if the father later legitimated the child and
paternity was established under this clause of former INA  321.
F. Definition of Reside Permanently
Generally , a child must be lawfully admitted for permanent residence to derive U.S. citizenship under
former INA  321. However , former INA  321 also states that the child may derive citizenship if the child
“begins to reside permanently in the United States” after the parent or parents’  naturalization while
under the age of 18 years.[28]
Some circuit courts of appeals have defined “reside permanently” to not require a lawful admission for
permanent residence. In the Second Circuit (New York, Connecticut, and V ermont), and the Ninth
Circuit (Alaska, Arizona, California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, W ashington, Guam, Hawaii,
and Northern Mariana Islands), the child is not required to become a lawful permanent resident before
the age of 18, provided that the child shows some objective of ficial manifestation of permanent
residence in the United States while under age 18.[29] In these jurisdictions, a child begins to reside
permanently in the United States when the child is physically in the United States, intends to reside in
the United States permanently , and has taken some of ficial action to accomplish that, such as
applying for lawful permanent residence.[30]
Outside the Second and Ninth Circuits, USCIS follows Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) precedent
that interprets “reside permanently” as requiring a lawful admission for permanent residence.[31]
G. Adopted Children
As originally enacted in 1952, former INA  321 did not apply to adopted children[32] of naturalized
citizens. Adopted children could not derive U.S. citizenship from adoptive parents. However , adopted
children could still derive from their biological parents if they met all other requirements, provided that8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2519/2618