Petitioners and beneficiaries must meet all qualifications for the exception to the limitation on total
stay, and must provide clear and convincing evidence that they qualify for the exception. Such proof
may include arrival and departure records, transcripts of processed income tax returns, and records of
employment abroad.
C. Recapture T ime
USCIS only counts time physically spent in the United States in the R-1 nonimmigrant status towards
the maximum 5 years of authorized stay . Officers should count only time spent physically in the United
States in valid R-1 status toward the 5-year maximum period of stay .
When requesting an extension, the petitioner , on behalf of the R-1 nonimmigrant, may request that full
calendar days spent outside the United States during the period of petition validity be recaptured and
added back to his or her remainder of the total maximum period of stay , regardless of whether the R-1
nonimmigrant is currently in the United States or abroad and regardless of whether he or she currently
holds R-1 nonimmigrant status.
It is the burden of the petitioner , on behalf of the beneficiary , to demonstrate continuing eligibility for
the classification and that the beneficiary is entitled to recapture time with appropriate evidence. The
reason for the absence is not relevant to whether the time may be recaptured. Any trip of at least one
24-hour calendar day outside the United States for any purpose, personal or professional, can be
recaptured.
1. Evidence
The burden of proof remains with the R-1 petitioner , on behalf of the beneficiary , to submit evidence
documenting periods of physical presence outside the United States when seeking an extension of
petition validity and extension of stay as an R-1 nonimmigrant. The R-1 nonimmigrant is in the best
position to organize and submit evidence of his or her departures from and readmissions to the United
States. While a summary , charts of travel, or both are often submitted to facilitate review of the
accompanying documentation, independent documentary evidence, such as photocopies of passport
stamps, Arrival/Departure Records (Form I-94), and plane tickets establishing that the R-1 beneficiary
was outside the United States during all of the days, weeks, or months that he or she seeks to
recapture is always required.
The fact that the burden may not be met for some claimed periods generally has no bearing on other
claimed periods for which the burden has been met. Any periods for which the burden has been met
may be added to the eligible period of admission upon approval of the application for extension of
status. An R-1 beneficiary may not be granted an extension of stay for periods that are not supported
by independent documentary evidence. It is not necessary to issue a request for evidence (RFE) for
any claimed periods unsupported by independent documentary evidence.
2. Applicability to R-2 Dependents8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 619/2618