While the petition can no longer be considered a joint petition if one party withdraws, the CPR is given
an opportunity to amend the basis for filing to a waiver . For example, a petitioning spouse may
withdraw support from the joint petition because the spouses have divorced or are in the process of
divorcing. Therefore, USCIS gives the CPR the opportunity to amend the basis for filing from a joint
petition to a waiver .
E. Notification of Decision
USCIS provides the CPR with written notice of the decision, whether an approval or denial.[21] If the
decision is a denial, USCIS must advise the CPR of the reason(s) for denial, notify the CPR of the
termination of permanent resident status, and instruct the CPR to surrender any permanent resident
cards. USCIS also issues an NT A, beginning the process of placing the CPR in removal proceedings.
The CPR may not appeal the decision to USCIS but may seek review of the decision in removal
proceedings.[22] Although the CPR may not appeal the decision to USCIS, the CPR may file a motion
to reopen or reconsider with USCIS by submitting a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ). The
CPR may also choose to file a new Form I-751  if eligible.
F. Motion to Reopen or Reconsider
The denial notice should include instructions for filing a Form I-290B . If USCIS denies the Form I-751
and the CPR disagrees with the decision or has additional evidence that shows the decision was
incorrect, the CPR may file a motion to reopen or reconsider the case by filing a Form I-290B.[23] The
CPR may also choose to simply file a new Form I-751 with a new filing basis, rather than filing a
motion to reopen or reconsider .
Amending the Basis for Filing on a Motion to Reopen
If the petition was denied under one basis for filing, but the CPR may qualify under another basis,
when the CPR files a motion to reopen, the CPR may amend the Form I-751 for consideration under a
new basis in limited circumstances. The CPR may request that USCIS amend the filing basis from a
joint filing to a waiver or from one waiver basis to another .
For example, if the basis for the Form I-751 was a divorce waiver but the CPR may qualify for a waiver
based on battery or extreme cruelty , the CPR may amend the basis for filing when filing a motion.
However , if the CPR seeks to change the basis for filing from a waiver to a joint petition, the CPR
cannot amend the filing basis using a motion. The CPR must file a new Form I-751 jointly with the
petitioning spouse or stepparent because the petitioning spouse or stepparent never signed the prior
Form I-751.
If either the original filing or the desired amended filing is based on battery or extreme cruelty ,
additional procedures must be followed.[24]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1399/2618