evidence demonstrating that the qualifying relationship will continue to exist until the beneficiary
becomes a lawful permanent resident.
The Business Structures  overview provides more information on the most common business forms or
structures, including information on formation, fundamental characteristics, and the tax forms
submitted to the Internal Revenue Service.
1. Subsidiary and Parent
The term subsidiary means a firm, corporation, or other legal entity of which a parent owns, directly or
indirectly:
More than half of the entity and controls the entity;
Half of the entity and controls the entity;
50 percent of a 50-50 joint venture and has equal control and veto power over the entity; or
Less than half of the entity , but in fact controls the entity .[15]
While the term parent is not directly defined by the regulations, it is understood to mean the owner of a
subsidiary .
2. Affiliate
There are three types of qualifying af filiate relationships:
One of two subsidiaries, both of which are owned and controlled by the same parent entity or
person;
One of two legal entities owned and controlled by the same group of people, each owning and
controlling approximately the same share or proportion of each entity; and
A partnership that is organized outside the United States to provide accounting services, along
with managerial or consulting services, and markets those services under an internationally
recognized name, as part of an agreement with a worldwide coordinating organization (of which
the U.S. entity is a member) that is owned and controlled by the member accounting firms,
partnership, or similar entity organized outside the United States.[16]
3. Limits on Petitions from Branch Offices and Nonimmigrants
Domestic of fices of a foreign employer operated as a branch (that is, not as a separate, domestic legal
entity) and nonimmigrants may not of fer permanent employment to a beneficiary for the purpose of
obtaining an immigrant visa for a multinational executive or manager .[17] The petitioner must be a U.S.
citizen or a U.S. corporation, partnership, or other legal entity in order to file an immigrant visa petition
for a multinational executive or manager . Therefore, while a U.S. corporation with a branch abroad
may file a petition, a foreign corporation operating an of fice or division in the United States that is not a
separate, domestic legal entity may not.[18]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1185/2618