A. General Provisions for Spouses, Children, and Parents of Military Members
1. Benefits for Family Members
Spouses and children of U.S. citizen service members may be eligible for naturalization under special
provisions in the INA. Certain spouses may be eligible for expedited naturalization in the United States
and may not be required to establish any prior period of residence or specified period of physical
presence within the United States, as generally required for naturalization.
The surviving spouse, child, or parent of a U.S. citizen who dies during a period of honorable service
in an active duty status in the U.S. armed forces may be eligible for naturalization. Surviving family
members seeking immigration benefits are given special consideration in the processing of their
applications for permanent residence or for classification as an immediate relative.
On January 28, 2008, legislation was enacted to permit a spouse or child to count any period of time
that he or she is residing abroad with the service member as authorized by of ficial orders as residence
and physical presence in the United States, under certain conditions.[1] The same legislation also
prescribes that such a spouse or child may be eligible for overseas proceedings relating to
naturalization, as previously only permitted for an eligible member of the U.S. armed forces.
Specifically , one provision limits the circumstances under which the lawful permanent resident
(LPR) spouse or child is considered to be seeking admission to the United States.[2] Another provision
allows the LPR spouse to count any qualifying time abroad as continuous residence and physical
presence in the United States and permits the spouse to naturalize overseas.[3] Another provision
allows the U.S. citizen parent of a child filing for naturalization to count time abroad as physical
presence and permits the child to naturalize overseas.[4]
2. Documenting “Official Orders”
In order to count any qualifying time abroad as continuous residence and physical presence in the
United States, a spouse or child of a member of the U.S. armed forces must have of ficial military
orders authorizing him or her to accompany his or her service member spouse or parent abroad, and
must accompany or live with that service member as provided in those orders.[5]
USCIS will only accept the following documents issued by the U.S. armed forces as “of ficial orders:”
Copy of Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders issued to a service member for permanent
tour of duty overseas that specifically name the spouse or child applying for naturalization; or
If the submitted PCS orders do not specifically name the applicant beyond reference to “spouse,”
“child,” or “dependent,” then the applicant must submit:
PCS orders (copy);
Form DD-1278 (Certificate of Overseas Assignment to Support Application to File Petition for
Naturalization); and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2558/2618