The applicant is a single, 25-year-old, recent college graduate living with their parent, and is currently
unemployed. Their parent is currently supporting the applicant financially , and these are the only two
individuals in the applicant’ s household. The household’ s income and net worth (assets minus
liabilities) are relatively low . A sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A  of the INA  was
submitted on behalf of the applicant. There is no information in the record to show that the applicant is
receiving or has received public benefits, or has any Class A or Class B medical conditions.
The of ficer evaluates each of the factors USCIS considers in a public charge inadmissibility
determination, and concludes that the factors do not indicate that the applicant is likely at any time to
become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence. For example, the applicant’ s record
of current unemployment, in the totality of the circumstances, does not outweigh the other factors and
considerations. As a result, the of ficer finds in the totality of the circumstances that the applicant has
met their burden of demonstrating they are not inadmissible under INA 212(a)(4) .
Scenario 2
The applicant is a single 35-year-old with no evidence of any Class A or Class B medical conditions.
The applicant has one child who lives with the applicant. The applicant is a currently employed high
school graduate, with moderate household income and relatively low household net worth. A sufficient
Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A  of the INA  was submitted on behalf of the applicant. There is
evidence in the record that the applicant received public cash assistance for income maintenance for a
period of 1 year , over 10 years ago.
The of ficer evaluates each of the factors USCIS considers as part of the public charge inadmissibility
determination, including the recency , amount, and duration of the past receipt of public cash
assistance for income maintenance. The of ficer determines that the alien’ s combination of factors
does not show that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the
government for subsistence, in part because the applicant is currently employed, and their receipt of
public cash assistance was neither recent nor long in duration. As a result, the of ficer finds in the
totality of the circumstances that the applicant has met their burden of demonstrating that they are not
inadmissible under INA 212(a)(4) .
Scenario 3
The applicant is a single 55-year-old, living alone, with no evidence of a Class A or Class B medical
condition. The applicant is an unemployed college graduate who has not been employed for over a
decade with low income arising solely from receipt of public cash assistance for income maintenance,
and low household net worth. A sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A  of the INA  was
submitted on behalf of the applicant. The applicant indicated that they are currently receiving public
cash assistance for income maintenance and have been receiving such assistance for over 5 years.
The of ficer evaluated each of the factors USCIS considers in a public charge inadmissibility
determination and the of ficer determined that the combination of factors shows that the applicant is8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2023/2618