Equivalent professional experience as established by a statement or professional credential
attesting to 5 years’  experience as a management consultant; or
Professional experience in a field of specialty related to the consulting agreement as evidenced
by 5 years’  experience.[18]
Management consultants are usually independent contractors or employees of consulting firms under
contracts to U.S. entities. A management consultant may be a salaried employee of the U.S. entities to
which he or she is providing services but may only fill irregular or non-routine temporary positions. If
the employer is a U.S. management-consulting firm, the alien may be admitted temporarily to fill an
otherwise permanent position.
7. Computer Systems Analyst
A computer systems analyst requires a baccalaureate or licenciatura degree. In the alternative, the
analyst may have a post-secondary diploma or certificate and 3 years' experience.[19] An acceptable
post-secondary diploma is a credential issued, on completion of 2 or more years of post-secondary
education, by an accredited academic institution in Canada or the United States.[20]
An acceptable post-secondary certificate is a certificate issued upon completion of 2 or more years of
post-secondary education at an academic institution, by the federal government of Mexico or a state
government in Mexico, an academic institution recognized by the federal government or a state
government, or an academic institution created by federal or state law .[21]
While systems analysts may perform some programming, this category does not include
programmers. A systems analyst is an information specialist who analyzes how data processing can
be applied to the specific needs of users and who designs and implements computer-based
processing systems. Systems analysts study the organization itself to identify its information needs
and design computer systems that meet those needs.
8. Hotel Managers
Hotel managers must possess a baccalaureate or licenciatura degree in hotel or restaurant
management. A post-secondary diploma in hotel or restaurant management plus 3 years of
experience in the field is also suf ficient to show a TN applicant qualifies under this specific occupation.
[22]
9. Animal and Plant Breeders
Animal and plant breeders breed animals and plants to improve their economic and aesthetic
characteristics. Both occupations require a baccalaureate or licenciatura degree.[23]
10. Economists8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 638/2618