USCIS does not deny an application for abandonment for failure to provide photographs if USCIS has
evidence that the applicant is a member of the U.S. armed forces who is permanently or temporarily
outside the United States and unable to provide photographs or appear to submit a photograph and
signature for reasons related to the individual's military service. USCIS coordinates with military
service members in these circumstances.
E. Documentation and Evidence
The applicant must submit the following required documents unless such documents are already
contained in the USCIS administrative record or do not apply:[71]
The child's birth certificate or record. 
Marriage certificate of child's parents, if applicable.
Proof of termination of any previous marriage of each parent if either parent was previously
married and divorced or widowed, for example: 
Divorce Decree; or 
Death Certificate.
Evidence of United States citizenship of parent: 
Birth Certificate; 
Naturalization Certificate; 
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240); 
A valid unexpired U.S. passport; or 
Certificate of Citizenship.
Documents verifying legitimation according to the laws of the child's residence or domicile or
biological U.S. citizen father's residence or domicile if the child was born out of wedlock. 
Documentation that the U.S. citizen parent had legal custody of the child while the child was
under the age of 18 years in the case of divorce, legal separation, or adoption.[72]
Evidence that establishes that the child was residing in the United States in the physical custody
of the U.S. citizen parent while under the age of 18 years.[73]
If applicable, of ficial orders (that is, a Permanent Change of Station (PCS)) from the respective
department that authorized the child of the U.S. armed forces member , or the child of the spouse
of such member and the spouse,[74] to accompany the U.S. citizen parent.
Copy of Permanent Resident Card or Alien Registration Receipt Card or other evidence of lawful
permanent resident status, such as an I-551 stamp in a valid foreign passport or travel document
issued by USCIS.
Copy of the full, final adoption decree, if applicable.[75]
Evidence of all legal name changes, if applicable, for the child and U.S. citizen parent.
An applicant does not need to submit documents that were submitted in connection with:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2495/2618