submission. If there are other reasons for submitting Form N-648 late, USCIS evaluates these
situations individually to determine whether to accept the late submission.[8]
Officers should evaluate each form submitted late individually , considering both verbal statements and
any supporting documentation. If the explanation to support the late submission is vague, incomplete,
or if there is evidence suggesting that disability or impairment existed before filing Form N-400,
officers may question[9] the validity of the medical certification.
Submission of updated or additional Forms N-648 in response to a request from USCIS will not be
considered a late submission.
When an alien has already submitted one Form N-648 with his or her Form N-400 but presents a new
or updated Form N-648 at the interview , this is considered a multiple submission rather than a late
submission.
3. Multiple Submissions
Only one initial Form N-648 should be submitted with the naturalization application. If the alien submits
more than one Form N-648  at any stage of the naturalization process—whether during the initial
interview , re-examination, or while the application is still pending—the of ficer may question the validity
of the submissions.[10] The of ficer should ask the alien to explain why multiple forms were submitted
and carefully examine any discrepancies between them.
When two dif ferent Form N-648 submissions come from separate medical professionals, this may
raise concerns about the credibility of the medical certification, if there are significant inconsistencies
in medical assessments or diagnoses. For example, discrepancies regarding the nature or origin of
the disability or impairment or its impact on the alien’ s ability to meet English or civics requirements
may call the validity of the medical certification into question.
If significant discrepancies or inconsistencies exist, the of ficer may determine that Form N-648 is
insuf ficient. However , before making this determination, the of ficer must give the alien an opportunity
to explain the discrepancies.[11]
Submission by the alien of a second Form N-648 at re-exam by the same medical professional, or a
different medical professional when USCIS has directed the alien to submit a Form N-648 from a
different medical professional, to address the insuf ficiencies USCIS identified in the initial N-648 will
not be considered submitting multiple Forms N-648. However , the of ficer at re-exam should carefully
examine the new Form N-648 to ensure that it addresses all insuf ficiencies and is consistent with the
prior Form N-648.
If legitimate concerns about the validity of the medical certification still exist, USCIS may find the Form
N-648 insuf ficient[12] and require the alien to submit a Form N-648 from a dif ferent medical
professional.[13]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2374/2618