purpose of subjecting the victim to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, slavery , or a
commercial sex act. The duration of the labor or services may be relevant in assessing the traf ficker ’s
purpose or motivation.
Trafficker Engaged in Prohibited Action for a Particular Purpose
An applicant must provide facts and evidence establishing the perpetrator ’s intent or purpose to
demonstrate that traf ficking has occurred. To establish that they are a victim of a severe form of
trafficking in persons, an applicant must demonstrate that the perpetrator engaged in a specific
prohibited action through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of inducing a commercial
sex act or subjecting the applicant to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery .
7. Difference Between T rafficking and Smuggling
Federal law distinguishes between the crimes of human smuggling and human traf ficking.[34]
Trafficking is a crime committed against a person regardless of the person’ s immigration status or the
crossing of a transnational border , while smuggling is a crime committed against a country’ s
immigration laws and involves the willful movement of a person across a country’ s border .
A person may voluntarily consent to be smuggled. In contrast, an act of traf ficking must involve both a
particular means, such as the use of force, fraud, or coercion, and a particular purpose, such as
subjection to involuntary servitude or a commercial sex act. Federal law prohibits forced labor
regardless of the victim’ s initial consent to work.[35]
While human traf ficking and smuggling are distinct, they are not mutually exclusive. Trafficking may
occur in the context of some smuggling arrangements. For example, a person who initially agreed to
be smuggled in exchange for money , services, or labor could become a victim of traf ficking if, over the
course of the smuggling, the smuggler subjects or intends to subject the person to acts beyond or
distinct from those agreed upon that meet the definition of a severe form of traf ficking.
A consensual smuggling agreement does not excuse any acts of traf ficking that may arise during the
course of smuggling. However , as with all cases, the applicant must establish the perpetrator's
purpose. In cases involving smuggling, this may include establishing that the smuggler's motivation or
purpose shifted over time to that of a traf ficker and that the initial consent has been invalidated by the
actions of the smuggler-turned-traf ficker .
The perpetrator ’s purpose or motivations can be multifaceted. For example, a smuggler who intends
to extort a person for financial payments during a smuggling arrangement may also have a dual or
shifting purpose to compel forced labor or services that place the person into a condition of servitude,
even where the forced labor or services end upon completion of the smuggling arrangement.
Short periods of victimization may qualify as a condition of servitude depending on the victim’ s
credible statements. Conversely , a person may be forced to perform certain labor within a smuggling8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 657/2618