applicant was granted exemption or discharge from training or service in the U.S. armed forces due to
alienage.[30] If the applicant avoided conscripted military service by requesting and being granted
exemption or discharge from training or service in the U.S. military due to alienage, the applicant is
considered “ineligible to citizenship” and therefore ineligible for registry .
Deportation Proceedings
An of ficer should verify the applicant’ s statements regarding deportation or removal proceedings. The
applicant’ s continuity of residence is considered broken by a departure due to, or following, an order of
removal, deportation, or exclusion. However , an applicant who leaves under an order of voluntary
departure does not automatically break the continuity of residence.[31]
Eligibility for Presumption of Lawful Admission
If examination of an applicant’ s file and supporting documents and information establishes the
applicant is eligible for presumption of lawful admission[32] even though the applicant sought
permanent residence through registry , an of ficer should advise the applicant that the registry
application filed on Form I-485  will be converted to one for presumption of lawful admission. 
The of ficer should only transfer the Form I-485  from one basis to another in clear cases in which the
application can be immediately granted.
3. Approvals
If the applicant can establish eligibility for registry and that the application warrants a favorable
exercise of discretion, then the of ficer should approve the application and provide the applicant with a
permanent resident card.
Effective Date of Permanent Residence 
The date the applicant is able to establish entry for registry purposes is important because it
determines the code of admission as well as the ef fective date of the applicant’ s permanent residence,
as outlined in the table below . 
Classes of Applicants and Corresponding Codes of Admission
Date of Established EntryEffective Date of Permanent
ResidenceCode of
Admission
Prior to July 1, 1924Date of Entry into the United
StatesZ33
On or After July 1, 1924 and Prior to June
28, 1940Date Application is Approved Z03 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1851/2618