Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ), and receive an employment authorization document (EAD,
Form I-766) from USCIS before starting of f-campus employment .
USCIS may grant severe economic hardship EADs in 1-year intervals, not to extend past the expected
date of completion of the student’ s current course of study .[11] Severe economic hardship EADs may
be renewed while the student continues to maintain status and is in good academic standing.[12]
Severe economic hardship employment authorization terminates when the student transfers from one
school to another or when the need for employment ceases. If the student is maintaining status,
beginning a new educational program at the same school does not terminate the student’ s
employment authorization.
2. Severe Economic Hardship due to Emergent Circumstances (Special Student Relief)
DHS may suspend certain regulatory requirements for F-1 students experiencing severe economic
hardship as a direct result of emergent circumstances.[13] This suspension, also known as special
student relief (SSR), first appeared in the Code of Federal Regulations in 1998.[14]
Emergent circumstances are events that af fect F-1 students from a particular region and create severe
economic hardship. These events may include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, financial
crises, and military conflicts.
The Secretary of Homeland Security may suspend duration of status, full course of study , and on-
campus and of f-campus employment regulatory requirements due to emergent circumstances. DHS
designates SSR by publication of a Federal Register notice, which provides the start and end dates of
the suspension of those requirements.
Lawful Status
Generally , DHS considers an F-1 student to be in lawful status if the student is pursuing a full course
of study at an approved educational institution.[15] However , when DHS designates SSR by
publication of a Federal Register notice, eligible students may reduce their full course of study as a
result of accepting employment authorized by the Federal Register notice.
DHS considers an F-1 student to be in lawful status during the period of authorized employment,
subject to any other conditions specified in the notice, provided that for the duration of the authorized
employment, the student is:
Registered for at least the minimum number of semester or quarter hours of instruction per
academic term as specified in the Federal Register notice; and
Is continuing to make normal progress toward completing the student’ s course of study .
When DHS designates SSR by publication of a Federal Register notice, the number of semester or
quarter hours of instruction per academic term cannot be less than 6 semester or quarter hours if the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 413/2618