To be eligible under the Convention process, the child must be habitually resident in a Convention
country and meet the definition of a Convention adoptee.[1] To be eligible as a Convention adoptee,
the Central Authority of the child’ s country of origin must also have determined that the child is eligible
and available for intercountry adoption.[2]
A Convention adoptee must meet the eligibility requirements under U.S. immigration law as described
below .[3] A child can have:
Two living parents or legal custodians who release the child for emigration and adoption (if there
is a direct relinquishment by the birth parents, the birth parents must be incapable of providing
proper care); or 
A sole or surviving parent who releases the child for emigration and adoption and the other
parent has died, disappeared, abandoned, or deserted the child. 
Definitions
Foreign of ficial documents and laws may use dif ferent terms from those used in U.S. immigration law
or use the same terms but with dif ferent meanings to define eligibility criteria for Convention adoptees.
To determine if a definition or requirement under U.S. immigration law is met, USCIS considers the
laws of the child's country of origin and the required actions by the foreign Central Authority .
USCIS also considers the facts and circumstances of the particular case given the totality of the
record. While some of the terms used in the Convention adoptee definition are the same as those
used in the orphan definition, they often have dif ferent meanings or requirements.
A. Two Living Birth Parents or Legal Custodians
1. Irrevocable Consent
The child's birth parents or other persons or institutions who retain legal custody of the child must
have freely given their written irrevocable consent to the termination of their legal relationship with the
child and to the child's emigration and adoption.[4]
2. Incapable of Providing Proper Care
In the case of a child released for adoption by two living birth parents directly to an individual (rather
than to an orphanage or institution authorized under the Convention country's child welfare laws
to act in such a capacity), the petitioner must demonstrate that the birth parents are incapable of
providing proper care.[5] Incapable of providing proper care means that in light of all the relevant
circumstances, including economic or financial concerns, extreme poverty , medical, mental, or
emotional dif ficulties, or long term incarceration, the child's two living birth parents are not able to
provide for the child's basic needs, consistent with the local standards of the Convention country .[6] 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 982/2618