The of fered wage or salary; and
Any other material and credible evidence relevant to a determination of whether the new position
is in the same or a similar occupational classification.
A change to the same or a similar occupational classification may involve lateral movement, career
progression, or porting to self-employment, either in the same or a dif ferent geographic location.
With respect to porting to self-employment, all other eligibility requirements must be satisfied. First, as
with all other portability determinations, the employment must be in a same or similar occupational
classification as the job for which the original petition was filed. Second, the adjustment applicant
should provide suf ficient evidence to confirm that the applicant’ s business and the job of fer are
legitimate. If the submitted evidence is insuf ficient to confirm the legitimacy , or the of ficer identifies
fraud indicators that raise doubts about the legitimacy of the self-employment, the of ficer may request
evidence to show that the self-employment is legitimate. Third, as with any portability case, USCIS
focuses on whether the petition represented the truly intended employment at the time of the filing of
both the petition and the adjustment application. This means that, as of the time of the filing of the
petition and at the time of filing the adjustment application (if not filed concurrently), the original
petitioner must have had the intent to employ the beneficiary , and the beneficiary must also have
intended to undertake the employment upon adjustment.[19] Officers may take the petition and
supporting documents themselves as evidence of such intent, but in certain cases requesting
additional evidence or initiating an investigation may be appropriate.
7. Using Standard Occupational Classification Codes
U.S. Department of Labor ’s Standard Occupational Classification
Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) codes may help address uncertainty in the portability
determination process. As mentioned above, USCIS does not consider SOC codes or their
descriptions as the sole determining factor(s) or mandatory factor(s) in portability determinations.
USCIS considers other relevant factors or evidence in the totality of the circumstances.[20]
In making portability determinations, of ficers may refer to DOL ’s labor market expertise as reflected in
its SOC system . The SOC system is used to organize occupational data and classify workers into
distinct occupational categories.[21] Occupations are generally categorized based on the type of work
performed and, in some cases, on the skills, education, and training required to perform the job.
Organization of SOC System
The SOC organizes all occupations into major groups, which are then broken down in descending
order into minor groups, broad occupations, and detailed occupations.[22] All workers are classified
into one of these detailed occupations. Detailed occupations with similar job duties and, in some
cases, skills, education, and training are generally grouped together in the same broad occupation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1640/2618