Passing the Civics T est
An applicant passes the civics test if the applicant provides a correct answer or provides an alternative
phrasing of the correct answer for six of the 10 questions.
Failing the Civics T est
An applicant fails the civics test if the applicant provides an incorrect answer or fails to respond to five
out of the 10 questions.
2. Special Consideration
An of ficer gives special consideration to an applicant who is 65 years of age or older and who has
been living in the United States for periods totaling at least 20 years subsequent to a lawful admission
for permanent residence.[13] The age and time requirements must be met at the time of filing the
naturalization application.
The test for applicants given special consideration contains 20 specially designated civics questions
from the list of 100 civics test questions for applicants to study . An applicant who meets the criteria for
special consideration passes the civics test if the applicant provides a correct answer or provides an
alternative phrasing of the correct answer for at least six of the 10 test questions from the specially
designated list of 20 questions.
3. Due Consideration
An of ficer should exercise “due consideration” on a case-by-case basis in choosing subject matters,
phrasing questions, and evaluating responses when administering the civics test. The of ficer’s
decision to exercise due consideration should be based on a review of the applicant’ s:
Age; 
Background; 
Level of education; 
Length of residence in the United States; 
Opportunities available and ef forts made to acquire the requisite knowledge; and 
Any other relevant factors relating to the applicant’ s knowledge and understanding.[14]
F. Failure to Meet the English or Civics Requirements
If an applicant fails any portion of the English test, the civics test, or all tests during the initial
naturalization examination, USCIS reschedules the applicant to appear for a
second examination between 60 and 90 days after the initial examination.[15]
In cases where the applicant appears for a re-examination, the reexamining of ficer must not
administer the same English or civics test forms administered during the initial examination. The8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2370/2618