Evidence of termination of any prior marriages, and any prior marriages of the Liberian principal
applicant, if applying as the eligible spouse of a Liberian principal applicant; and
Evidence that the Liberian principal applicant obtained LPR status or has a pending application
for adjustment of status under LRIF (for example, an Approval or Receipt Notice (Form I-797) for
the Liberian national’ s adjustment application), if the eligible family member is not filing
concurrently with the Liberian principal applicant.
Only the Liberian principal applicant must show Liberian nationality and continuous physical presence
in the United States to be eligible to adjust based on LRIF .
Evidence of Arrivals to and Departures from the United States
LRIF applicants applying as family members must provide a list of all arrivals to and departures from
the United States. Applicants should submit evidence of all arrivals to and departures from the United
States. Applicants should also submit any evidence showing residence from the date of his or her first
arrival where residence was established until the filing of the applicant’ s LRIF-based adjustment
application. USCIS uses this information to determine the date of lawful permanent residence for
approved LRIF-based adjustment applicants.[31]
E. Adjudication
1. Interview
USCIS may require any applicant filing a benefit request to appear for an interview .[32]
2. Approvals
USCIS must approve the adjustment application if the applicant meets all the eligibility requirements
under LRIF . Adjustment under LRIF is not discretionary . If USCIS approves the application for
adjustment, USCIS assigns the codes of admission as shown in the table below .
Classes of Applicants and Codes of Admission
Liberian national as described in Section 761 1(c)(1)(A) of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (NDAA  2020) who has adjusted status under LRIFLR6
Spouse of Liberian national as described in Section 761 1(c)(1)(A) of NDAA  2020 who has
adjusted status under LRIFLR7
Child of Liberian national as described in Section 761 1(c)(1)(A) of NDAA  2020 who has
adjusted status under LRIFLR8
Unmarried son or daughter of Liberian national as described in Section 761 1(c)(1)(A) of
NDAA  2020 who has adjusted status under LRIFLR9
Rollback Provisions8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1864/2618