An orphan who has been adopted abroad by a U.S. citizen or who is coming to the United States
for adoption by a U.S. citizen;[5]
A Hague Convention adoptee who has been adopted abroad by a U.S. citizen or who is coming
to the United States for adoption by a U.S. citizen;[6] or
A child born out of wedlock to a natural[7] U.S. citizen or LPR parent. If the petitioning parent is
the natural father and the child has not been legitimated, the natural father and child must have
had a bona-fide parent-child relationship before the child reached the age of 21 or married. 
1. Child Born In or Out of W edlock
USCIS considers a child to be born in wedlock when the child’ s legal parents are married to one
another at the time of the child’ s birth and at least one of the legal parents has a genetic or gestational
relationship to the child.[8] Therefore, a child born in wedlock may be:
A genetic child of a married U.S. citizen or LPR parent if both married parents are recognized by
the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal parents;
The child of a married non-genetic gestational U.S. citizen or LPR parent (person who carried
and gave birth to the child) if both married parents are recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as
the child’ s legal parents; or
A child of a U.S. citizen or LPR who is married to the child’ s genetic or gestational parent at the
time of the child’ s birth, if both married parents are recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the
child’ s legal parents.[9]
If a child does not meet this definition of born “in wedlock,” USCIS considers the child to have been
born out of wedlock. While the petitioning U.S. citizen or LPR parent may be the natural mother or
natural father , if the petitioning parent is the natural father and the child has not been legitimated, the
natural father and child must have had a bona-fide parent-child relationship before the child reached
the age of 21 or married. A “natural” parent may be a genetic or a gestational parent (who carries and
gives birth to the child) who is recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal parent.
2. Legitimated Child [Reserved]
[Reserved]
3. Assisted Reproductive T echnology (ART)[10]
The child of a gestational parent who is also the child’ s legal parent may be considered a “child” for
immigration purposes. A person who is the gestational and legal parent of a child under the law of the
relevant jurisdiction at the time of the child’ s birth may file a Petition for Alien Relative ( Form I-130 ) for
the child if all other eligibility requirements are met.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1086/2618