G. Documentation and Evidence
The applicant must submit the following required documents unless such documents are already
contained in USCIS administrative record or do not apply .[30]
The child's birth certificate or record.
Marriage certificate of child's parents, if applicable.
Proof of termination of any previous marriage of each parent if either parent was previously
married and divorced or widowed, for example: 
Divorce Decree; or 
Death Certificate.
Evidence of United States citizenship of parent: 
Birth Certificate; 
Naturalization Certificate; 
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240); 
A valid unexpired U.S. passport; or 
Certificate of Citizenship.
Documents verifying legitimation according to the laws of the child's residence or domicile or
biological U.S. citizen father's residence or domicile if the child was born out of wedlock.
Documentation of legal custody in the case of divorce, legal separation, or adoption.
Documentation establishing that the U.S. citizen parent or U.S. citizen grandparent meets the
required physical presence requirements, such as school records, military records, utility bills,
medical records, deeds, mortgages, contracts, insurance policies, receipts, or attestations by
churches, unions, or other organizations.
Evidence that the child is present in the United States pursuant to a lawful admission and is
maintaining such lawful status or evidence establishing that the child qualifies for an exception to
these requirements as provided for children of members of the U.S. armed forces.[31] Such
evidence may be presented at the time of interview when appropriate.
Copy of the full, final adoption decree, if applicable.[32]  
Evidence of all legal name changes, if applicable, for the child, U.S. citizen parent, U.S. citizen
grandparent or U.S. citizen legal guardian.
An applicant does not need to submit documents that were submitted in connection with:
An immigrant visa application retained by the American Consulate for inclusion in the immigrant
visa package; or
An immigrant petition or application included in a USCIS administrative file.
If necessary , an of ficer may request additional documentation to make a decision on the application. 
H. Citizenship Interview and W aiver8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2508/2618