If the benefit requestor changes their name while under foreign jurisdiction, USCIS considers the
name change to be legally valid if the country has jurisdiction over the requestor at the time of the
change and the change is legally valid and documented under that country’ s law . For questions
relating to the validity of a legal name change that occurred in a foreign country , officers may review
the case with local counsel, review the U.S. Department of State’ s Reciprocity Schedule for available
documentation, and request a Library of Congress report.
Common Law
In the United States, including its territories and possessions, state and local law govern name
changes. Therefore, USCIS may issue a document in a new name based on the operation of the
provisions of any state or local law that recognizes a new name. If the requestor resides in a state that
recognizes common law name changes, the requestor may provide a state-issued identification
document and appropriate documentation issued by the state or locality recognizing a common law
name change based upon customary usage. The documentary evidence should show the issue date,
acquired name, and at least one other piece of identifying data such as the applicant’ s date of birth,
place of birth, age, photograph, or Social Security number . Acceptable documentary evidence includes
but is not limited to driver ’s licenses and non-driver state-issued identification. For questions relating to
the validity of a common law name change, of ficers may review the case with local counsel.
Name After Marriage or Divorce
A married person may retain their pre-marital name or use a dif ferent legal married name (such as a
spouse’ s surname or a hyphenated name combining the pre-marital name and spouse’ s surname).
This change is often dependent on the married person’ s preferences and may not be the name as it
appears on a marriage license or certificate. However , if the marriage occurred in the United States,
the of ficer should refer to the applicable state law to determine if the name change should be reflected
on the marriage license or certificate.
Similarly , a divorce might result in a change of name. Such change may be reflected on the divorce
decree or order in support of the decree. As with marriages, the of ficer should refer to the applicable
state law to determine if the name change should be reflected on the divorce decree.
2. Construction of Foreign Names
Construction of foreign names varies from culture to culture.[8] For example, certain countries’  birth
certificates display names in this order: family name, middle name, given name. This contrasts with
most birth certificates issued in the United States, which display names in this order: given name,
middle name, family name.[9]
When determining a benefit requestor ’s legal name, of ficers should be aware of the varying
construction of foreign names. Of ficers also can consider the requestor ’s preferences if consistent with
the governing state or local law .[10] Officers should verify that the legal name entered in USCIS8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 266/2618