6. Practical T raining
Petitioners frequently assert that beneficiaries will spend a certain amount of time in “practical
training.” This assertion needs to be supported with a clear explanation of the type and degree of
supervision that the beneficiary will receive during such periods.[16] If the of ficer determines that the
“practical training” would actually be productive employment, then the petitioner must establish that it
would be incidental to and necessary to the training.[17]
7. Productive Employment
The proportion of time that will be devoted to productive employment must be specified.[18] Productive
employment should be minimal because the beneficiary should be training and not performing
productive work that displaces U.S. citizens or legal residents.[19] A training program which devotes a
significant percentage of time to productive employment should be closely scrutinized.[20]
8. Substantial T raining and Expertise in Field of T raining
In order to establish that the beneficiary does not already possess substantial training and expertise in
the proposed field of training,[21] the petitioner should submit as much information regarding the
beneficiary’ s credentials as possible. If related to the proposed H-3 training program, copies of the
beneficiary’ s diplomas and transcripts should be submitted, including any training and education
received in the United States, copies of any relevant forms (for example, Certificate of Eligibility for
Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status-For Academic and Language Students (Form I-20), Certificate of
Eligibility for Exchange V isitor (J-1) Status(Form DS-2019)). If possible, letters from prior employers
detailing the beneficiary’ s work experience should also be submitted. 
9. Sufficiently T rained Staff
In order to establish that it has suf ficiently trained staf f to provide the training specified in the petition,
[22] the petitioner should provide the names and credentials of the persons who will provide the
training. The petitioner should specify the amount of time each trainer will spend training the
beneficiary . The petitioner should also explain how the trainers’  normal responsibilities will be
performed while they are training the beneficiary (this is especially important in cases involving
relatively small entities, as larger percentages of their workforces will presumably be diverted in order
to provide the training).[23]
10. Unavailability of the T raining in Beneficiary’ s Country
The petitioner must establish that the trainee cannot obtain the training in his or her country and
demonstrate why it is necessary for the trainee to be trained in the United States.[24]
C. Approvals8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 458/2618