could only be granted through the enactment of private legislation for specific individuals.
Congress and the President have continued to express interest in legislation to expand the citizenship
benefits of aliens serving in the military since the events of September 1 1, 2001. Legislation to benefit
service members and their family members has increased considerably since 2003.
1. Executive Order Designating Period since September 1 1, 2001 as a Period of Hostility
On July 3, 2002, then President, George W . Bush, of ficially designated by Executive Order the period
beginning on September 1 1, 2001 as a “period of hostilities.” The Executive Order triggered immediate
naturalization eligibility for qualifying service members.[6]
At the time of the designation, the Department of Defense (DOD) and legacy INS announced that they
would work together to ensure that military naturalization applications would be processed
expeditiously . USCIS adjudication procedures for military naturalization applications reflect that
commitment. 
2. Legislation Affecting Service Period, Overseas Naturalization, and Benefits for Relatives
On November 24, 2003, Congress enacted legislation[7] to:
Reduce the period of service required for military naturalization based on peacetime service from
three years to one year .[8]
Add service in the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve during periods of hostilities as a
basis to qualify for naturalization.[9]
Expand the immigration benefits available to the spouses, children, and parents of U.S. citizens
who die from injuries or illnesses resulting from or aggravated by serving in combat. These
benefits extend to such relatives of service members who were granted citizenship
posthumously .
Waive fees for naturalization applications based on military service during peacetime or during
periods of hostilities.[10]
Permit naturalization processing overseas in U.S. embassies, consulates, and military bases for
members of the U.S. armed forces.[11]
Efforts since the 2003 legislation have focused on further streamlining procedures or extending
immigration benefits to immediate relatives of service members.
3. Legislation Affecting Residence, Physical Presence, and Naturalization while Abroad for
Spouses and Children
On January 28, 2008, Congress amended existing statutes to allow residence abroad to qualify as
“continuous residence” and “physical presence” in the United States for a spouse or child of a service8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2531/2618