(EOS) or change of status (COS).[39] The following examples provide more detail on the ef fect of EOS
and COS applications on a pending adjustment application.
Timely Filed Application to Extend Stay Granted by USCIS
When USCIS approves a nonimmigrant’ s timely filed application to extend status, the start date of the
extended status is retroactive to the expiration date of the initial or previously extended period of
status. USCIS’  practice of making the approval ef fective as of the prior expiration date recognizes that
the nonimmigrant has been maintaining the same nonimmigrant status throughout the processing and
adjudication of the extension application.
Example: Ef fect of Timely Filed Extension of Stay Application
Date Event
January 1, 2009 An alien is admitted to the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor .
June 30, 2009The B-2 nonimmigrant’ s authorized stay expires, as indicated on the
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94). 
June 1, 2009 The B-2 nonimmigrant timely files an application to extend visitor status.
August 1, 2009 The B-2 nonimmigrant files an adjustment application.
September 1, 2009USCIS extends the B-2 nonimmigrant’ s visitor status valid from June 30,
2009 to December 31, 2009.
In this scenario, USCIS considers the applicant to have continuously maintained lawful status for
purposes of adjusting status. In contrast, if USCIS denied the extension application, the applicant
would have fallen out of status as of June 30 and would be barred from adjusting status, unless an
exemption applies.
Timely Filed Application to Change Status Granted by USCIS
When USCIS approves a nonimmigrant’ s timely filed application to change status, the start date for
the new nonimmigrant status is ef fective on the date of approval. The start date acknowledges the fact
that USCIS only authorizes the nonimmigrant’ s change of status as of the date of the approval. 
If a gap of time exists between the expiration date of the previous nonimmigrant status and the start
date of the new status, USCIS considers the nonimmigrant to have continued to maintain a lawful
status only if:
The nonimmigrant timely filed the COS application;  
USCIS granted the request to change status; and  
The nonimmigrant did not violate any terms and conditions of the initial status.
Example: Ef fect of Timely Filed Change of Status Application8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1571/2618