There are four types of auditor ’s reports that accompany audited financial statements: unqualified
opinion, qualified opinion, adverse opinion, and disclaimer of opinion. Reports including an unqualified
opinion are generally the most credible, reliable, and probative.
An unqualified opinion states that, in the opinion of the auditor , the financial statements are free
of material misstatements and are presented fairly in accordance with GAAP .
A qualified opinion report states that, in the opinion of the auditor , the financial statements are
presented fairly in accordance with GAAP , except for a specified qualification. A qualified opinion
is generally issued when the auditor identifies a departure from GAAP  or when the auditor could
not audit one or more areas of the financial statements. Audited financial statements with a
qualified opinion report may be credible, reliable, and probative to establish ability to pay ,
especially if the qualification does not relate to the net income or net current assets figures on
the financial statements.[9]
An adverse opinion report states that, in the opinion of the auditor , the financial statements are
materially misstated and do not conform with GAAP . A disclaimer of opinion report states that the
accountant is unable to form an opinion on the financial statements. Of ficers should review
financial statements with adverse or disclaimer of opinion reports along with other ability to pay
evidence to determine whether all of the evidence submitted establishes a petitioner ’s ability to
pay.
The mere submission of annual reports, federal tax returns, or audited financial statements does not
establish ability to pay . USCIS must analyze the financial information contained in these documents to
determine whether they present persuasive information demonstrating that the petitioner possessed
the ability to pay the prof fered wage on the priority date and continuing until the beneficiary obtains
lawful permanent residence.
4. Financial Officer Statement
If the petitioner employs 100 or more workers, a statement from a financial of ficer of the organization
may serve to establish ability to pay the prof fered wage.[10] The financial of ficer statement may be
submitted in place of annual reports, federal tax returns, or audited financial statements.[11] Detailed
letters that explain the basis of the financial of ficer’s conclusion in terms of the company’ s finances are
the most probative. USCIS has the discretion to determine whether the statement is, by itself,
sufficient to establish ability to pay .
Examples of when a statement from a financial of ficer alone might not be suf ficient to establish ability
to pay include, but are not limited to:
The petitioner has filed petitions on behalf of multiple beneficiaries to the extent that the ability to
pay all of the salary obligations may be in question;[12] 
Evidence in the record reflects that the petitioner may have fewer than 100 employees;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1104/2618