(DOS) also make these determinations. Although there is a previous finding of eligibility , the burden of
proof in the request for an extension of petition validity remains on the petitioner .[9]
Officers are not bound to approve subsequent petitions or applications seeking immigration benefits
where eligibility has not been demonstrated strictly because of a prior approval (which may have been
erroneous).[10] USCIS decides each matter according to the evidence of record on a case-by-case
basis.[11] However , deviation from a previous approval carries important consequences and implicates
predictability and consistency concerns.
As such, any deviation requires close consideration of the previous approval by USCIS. When
adjudicating a subsequent petition or application involving the same parties (for example, petitioner
and beneficiary) and the same underlying facts, of ficers should defer to a prior determination that the
beneficiary or applicant is eligible for the nonimmigrant classification sought, where appropriate.
Deviating from Previous Approvals
Officers should not defer to prior approvals in cases where:
There was a material error involved with previous approval(s);
There has been a material change in circumstances or eligibility requirements;[12] or
There is new material information that adversely impacts the petitioner ’s or beneficiary’ s
eligibility .[13]
An of ficer who determines that deference to a prior approval is not appropriate must acknowledge the
previous approval(s) in the denial, Request for Evidence (RFE), or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID). In
addition, the of ficer must articulate the reason for not deferring to the previous determination (for
example, due to a material error , change in circumstances, or new adverse material information).
Officers must provide the petitioner or applicant an opportunity to respond to the new information.[14]
As mentioned above, an of ficer should not defer to a prior approval where new material information is
available. This may include publicly available information that af fects eligibility for a benefit. For
example, an of ficer may be aware that a petitioner has recently gone out of business. This also
includes information that af fects national security or public safety garnered from security checks
conducted on beneficiaries and petitioners. An of ficer should not defer to a prior approval when there
are indicators of potential fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact. The of ficer must
articulate the new material information in an RFE or NOID.
In all cases, of ficers must obtain supervisory approval before deviating from a prior approval in their
final decision.
2. Cases Involving Previous Determinations by Other Agencies8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 337/2618