For example, an applicant who was lawfully admitted, worked without authorization for one year , and
then departed and returned on parole does not qualify for the exemption. Because the parole is not an
admission, the applicant’ s unauthorized employment still counts since it occurred following his last
lawful admission. The one year of unauthorized employment exceeds the 180-day limit, making the
applicant ineligible for the exemption and therefore barred from adjustment by INA 245(c)(2) and INA
245(c)(8)  based on the unauthorized employment.
4. Calculating Period of V iolations
If an applicant has committed a status or employment violation following his or her most recent lawful
admission, the phrase “aggregate period not exceeding 180 days” means the total of all types of
violations taken together . The 180-day period is not counted separately for each type of violation, but
altogether . 
The of ficer should count each day in which one or more of these violations existed as one day . Any
day in which more than one violation occurred should not be double-counted. Accordingly , an of ficer
should add together any and all days in which there is one or more of the violations to determine if the
violations, as a whole, exceed the 180-day limit. 
Failed to Maintain Lawful Status or V iolated T erms of Nonimmigrant Status
In most cases, the counting of days against the 180-day limit begins on the earliest of the following:
The day the applicant’ s immigration status expired; 
 The day the applicant’ s immigration status was revoked or rescinded; or 
 The day the applicant violated his or her immigration status.
The counting of days out of status usually stops on the earliest of the following:
The day the applicant properly files an adjustment application; 
 The day the applicant obtains lawful immigration status; or
 The day the applicant departs the United States.
For example, if an applicant enters the United States as a nonimmigrant and continues to stay in the
United States after such nonimmigrant status expires, the applicant has failed to continuously maintain
a lawful status at the point the status expires. If the applicant later acquires a new lawful status, for
instance, temporary protected status, then the applicant is no longer failing to maintain a lawful status.
The time period between the two lawful statuses is counted towards the 180-day limit in determining if
the applicant is eligible for the exemption.
Unauthorized Employment
USCIS calculates the number of days an applicant engaged in unauthorized employment beginning on
the first day of such employment and continuing until the earliest of the following:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1596/2618