the U.S. states require foreign medical school graduates to complete additional post-graduate medical
training or residencies beyond that required for U.S. medical school graduates.
In order to approve a petition supported by a permanent labor certification filed on behalf of a
physician, the petitioner must show that, at the time of the filing of the permanent labor certification,
the physician:
Possesses a permanent license to practice medicine in the area of intended employment; or
Has met all of the requirements to be eligible to obtain such a license in the area of intended
employment, notwithstanding eligibility requirements that are contingent upon his or her
immigration status in the United States.
Some state medical boards do not issue a license to practice medicine unless the applicant presents
evidence that he or she is legally authorized to be employed in the United States or has obtained a
U.S. Social Security Number (SSN). State licensure criteria relating to the applicant’ s U.S. immigration
status, such as a requirement that the applicant must be a lawful permanent resident (LPR) or must
otherwise possess employment authorization or an SSN, should not be considered relevant to the
adjudication of the petition as the petition is the means by which the physician would obtain LPR
status and eligibility to accept employment and obtain an SSN in the United States.
Officers review the evidence provided in support of the petition to determine if the physician had a
permanent license to practice or was eligible to obtain such a license in the location of intended
employment at the time of filing of the permanent labor certification. Information regarding the
licensure requirements for U.S. states can be obtained from the Federation of State Medical Boards[5]
and at the various U.S. medical board websites.
2. Foreign Medical Degree Equivalency
The United States is one of the few countries where medical school applicants are required to obtain a
bachelor ’s degree as a requirement for admission to medical school. As a result, a U.S. medical
degree is considered to be an advanced degree.
In many other countries, a person may be admitted to medical school directly out of high school. In
these instances, the program of study for the foreign medical degree is longer in length (generally 5-7
years in duration) than is required for a less specialized foreign bachelor ’s degree (generally 3-4 years
in duration). In some countries, the name of the degree is “Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery ,"
and the program of study may involve only medicine, to include some limited basic sciences.
A foreign medical degree may qualify as the equivalent of a U.S. medical degree and therefore an
advanced degree for purposes of this visa classification if, at the time of the filing of the permanent
labor certification application, the following two conditions are met:
Condition 1: The beneficiary:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1225/2618