If the waiver is not approvable and the applicant did not request consent to reapply (although
required), the of ficer should deny the waiver and not request the application for consent to reapply . If
an applicant files a consent to reapply application and the of ficer denies the waiver application, then
the of ficer should deny the consent to reapply application as a matter of discretion.[6]
3. No W aiver is Available
An applicant may be inadmissible for both a ground that USCIS may waive and a ground for which no
waiver or other form of relief is available. In this instance, the applicant is still inadmissible on grounds
that cannot be waived and approving the waiver application serves no purpose. The of ficer, therefore,
should deny the application as a matter of discretion because the applicant is inadmissible on grounds
that cannot be waived.[7] The of ficer should provide the standard language regarding the availability of
motions to reopen, motions to reconsider , and appeals (if applicable) in the denial notice.
C. Evidence
There is no specific type or amount of evidence necessary to establish eligibility for a waiver . Typically ,
the evidence should support all eligibility requirements, be specific, and come from a credible source.
It should also substantiate the applicant’ s claims. If evidence is unavailable, the applicant should
provide a reasonable explanation for its absence.[8]
1. Medical and Other Issues Requiring Specialized Knowledge
Professionals should address issues that require specialized knowledge. Physicians and other
medical professionals, for example, should provide medical statements. The professional’ s
attestation should explain how the condition or issue af fects that applicant. An of ficer may still consider
a nonprofessional’ s statement, but the of ficer should give less weight to a nonprofessional’ s
opinion. An of ficer may consider medical evidence from the internet and published sources, but these
sources generally cannot replace a physician's statement.
2. Family Relationships
Some waivers require that the applicant establish a qualifying familial relationship. Unless the
adjudicating of ficer finds the underlying evidence unpersuasive, the evidence submitted as part of a
previously approved petition or application based on that familial relationship is suf ficient to establish
the qualifying relationship for the waiver . If there is no evidence in the record establishing the
qualifying relationship, then the of ficer must request evidence that establishes
the qualifying relationship, such as marriage, birth, or adoption certificates, or other evidence as
permitted by law .
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2099/2618