An applicant seeking adjustment of status as a special immigrant juvenile may file his or her
adjustment application with USCIS concurrently with the SIJ petition, while the SIJ petition is pending,
or after USCIS approves the SIJ petition (as long as the petition is still valid), provided:
USCIS has jurisdiction over the adjustment application;[42] and
The visa availability requirements are met.[43]
2. Interview
Determining Necessity of Interview
USCIS recognizes the vulnerable nature of SIJ based applicants for adjustment of status and
generally conducts interviews of SIJ based applicants for adjustment of status when an interview is
deemed necessary . USCIS conducts a full review of the record and supporting evidence to determine
whether an interview may be warranted.
USCIS will generally not require an interview if the record contains suf ficient information and evidence
to approve the adjustment application without an in-person assessment. However , USCIS retains the
discretion to interview SIJ based adjustment applicants for the purposes of adjudicating the
adjustment of status application, as applicable.[44]
Conducting the Interview
Given the vulnerable nature of SIJ based adjustment applicants and the hardships they may face
because of the loss of parental support, USCIS takes special care to establish a child-friendly
interview environment. During an interview , USCIS avoids questioning the applicant about the details
of the abuse, neglect, or abandonment suf fered because these issues are handled by the juvenile
court. USCIS generally focuses the interview on resolving issues related to eligibility for adjustment of
status.
The applicant may bring a trusted adult to the interview in addition to an attorney or representative.
The trusted adult may serve as a familiar source of comfort to the applicant, but should not interfere
with the interview process or coach the applicant during the interview . Given potential human
trafficking and other concerns, USCIS assesses the appropriateness of the adult to attend the
interview and is observant of the adult’ s interaction with the child. If USCIS has any concerns related
to appropriateness of the adult’ s presence, USCIS may continue the interview without that adult
present. Although USCIS may limit the number of persons present at the interview , such limitations do
not extend to the petitioner ’s attorney or accredited representative of record.[45]
3. Age-Out Protections
There is no age limit for SIJ-based applicants for adjustment of status. In cases where an SIJ
petitioner is under 21 years of age on the date of proper filing of the SIJ petition, USCIS does not deny8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1702/2618