D. 18 Months of Physical Presence
The spouse must have been physically present in the United States for at least 18 months (548 days)
out of the 3 years immediately preceding the date of filing the application.[9] Physical presence refers
to the number of days the applicant must physically be present in the United States during the
statutory period up to the date of filing for naturalization.[10]
E. 90-Day Early Filing Provision (INA  334)
The spouse of a U.S. citizen filing for naturalization on the basis of his or her marriage may file the
naturalization application up to 90 days before the date he or she would first meet the required 3-year
period of continuous residence.[11] Although an applicant may file early and may be interviewed during
that period, the applicant is not eligible for naturalization until he or she has satisfied the required 3-
year period of residence. All other requirements for naturalization must be met at the time of filing.
USCIS calculates the early filing period by counting back 90 days from the day before the applicant
would have first satisfied the continuous residence requirement for naturalization. For example, if the
day the applicant would satisfy the 3-year continuous residence requirement for the first time is on
June 10, 2010, USCIS will begin to calculate the 90-day early filing period from June 9, 2010. 
In cases where an applicant has filed early and the required 3-month period of residence in a state or
service district falls within the required 3-year period of continuous residence, jurisdiction is based on
the 3-month period immediately preceding the examination on the application (interview).[12]
F. Eligibility for Persons Subjected to Battery or Extreme Cruelty
1. General Eligibility for Persons Subjected to Battery or Extreme Cruelty
On October 28, 2000, Congress expanded the provision regarding naturalization based on marriage to
a U.S. citizen for persons who reside in the United States. The amendments added that any person
who obtained LPR status as the spouse, former spouse, or intended spouse[13] of a U.S. citizen who
subjected him or her to battery or extreme cruelty may naturalize under this provision.[14]
Specifically , the person must have obtained LPR status based on:
An approved Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) as the self-
petitioning spouse of an abusive U.S. citizen;
An approved Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) as the self-
petitioning spouse of an abusive LPR, if the abusive spouse naturalizes after the petition has
been approved;[15] or
Special rule cancellation of removal for battered spouses and children in cases where the
applicant was the spouse, or intended spouse of a U.S. citizen, who subjected him or her8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2442/2618