Services or labor provided as a health care worker at a facility that jointly serves members of the
U.S. armed forces, dependents, and civilians on Guam or in the CNMI.[10]
An employer who qualifies under any one of the above parameters is not required to demonstrate that
the service or labor is temporary in nature if the employment start date is before December 31, 2029.
Petitions with employment start dates on or after December 31, 2029, are subject to adjudication
under the law and regulations that apply to the H-2B program at that time.
For H-2B petitions for employment on Guam and in the CNMI that do not qualify under the NDAA
exemption, USCIS adjudicates the petitions according to existing DHS regulations and policy
concerning the H-2B classification.
2. NDAA  Exemption Eligibility Involving Military Realignment
H-2B Petition Eligibility Directly Connected to, Supporting, Associated with, or Adversely Affected by
the Military Realignment on Guam or in the CNMI
With the exception of health care workers (discussed below), consistent with the FY  2021 NDAA,
USCIS requires petitioners requesting the NDAA  temporary need exemption to demonstrate that all
services or labor to be performed by H-2B nonimmigrants on Guam or in the CNMI are:
Performed as a result of an agreement entered into by a prime contractor or subcontractor;
For services or labor required for performance of a contract or subcontract that is:
For construction, repairs, renovations, or facility services; and
Directly connected to, supporting, associated with, or adversely af fected by the military
realignment on Guam and in the CNMI.
As required by the FY  2021 NDAA, USCIS gives priority to services or labor performed under a
contract or subcontract for federally funded military projects.[11]
The agreement may be a contract or subcontract. To qualify for the NDAA  exemption, any contract or
subcontract for labor or services for construction, repairs, renovations, or facility services must be
supporting, associated with, directly connected to, or adversely af fected by the military realignment. It
cannot be only incidentally or tangentially related to the realignment. The claimed relationship to the
military realignment, whether directly connected to, associated with, supporting, or adversely af fected
by, cannot be based on assertions with no documentation to support the claim, that is, it cannot be
purely speculative. The claimed relationship must be demonstrated by a preponderance of the
evidence.
If the petition includes multiple agreements or otherwise applies to multiple service or labor projects,
all such agreements and projects must have at least one of the above-described relationships to the
military realignment. If any of the included agreements or projects lack a required relationship to the
military realignment, the petition does not qualify under the NDAA  exemption and USCIS adjudicates8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 435/2618