If abusive U.S. citizen or LPR relatives lost or renounced their U.S. citizenship or LPR status before
the self-petition was filed, the self-petitioner may remain eligible if the loss or renunciation of status
was related or due to an incident of domestic violence. The loss or renunciation must also have
occurred within the 2-year period immediately preceding the filing of the self-petition.[42]
The requirement that a self-petitioner file within 2 years following the qualifying relative’ s loss or
renunciation of U.S. citizenship or LPR status is a condition of eligibility for which there is no waiver or
equitable tolling available. The 2-year period cannot be equitably tolled because the statute allows for
self-petitioning while the qualifying relative maintains U.S. citizenship or LPR status and creates a cut-
off date for filing when the qualifying relative has lost U.S. citizenship or LPR status.
Note that for self-petitioning parents, the abusive son or daughter must have been 21 years of age or
older when the son or daughter ’s citizenship was lost or renounced.
USCIS considers the full history of domestic violence when determining whether the abuser ’s loss or
renunciation of status is related to an incident of domestic violence. When considering whether the
loss or renunciation of status was related to an incident of domestic violence, USCIS determines
whether the evidence submitted establishes:
The circumstances surrounding the loss or renunciation of status;
Whether the loss or renunciation of status is related to the incident of domestic violence; and
The loss or renunciation of status occurred within the 2-year period immediately preceding the
filing of the self-petition.
Examples of evidence demonstrating the above requirements may include but are not limited to:
Self-af fidavits;
Police, child protective services, and other related reports;
Court records;
Immigration records; and
Any other credible evidence of the above requirements.
2. Loss or Renunciation of U.S. Citizenship or Loss of Lawful Permanent Resident Status After
Filing
The loss or renunciation of the qualifying relative’ s U.S. citizenship or LPR status after the self-petition
is filed does not impact a self-petitioning spouse or child’ s eligibility or adversely af fect an approved
self-petition. There is no requirement to show a relation between the loss or renunciation of U.S.
citizenship or LPR status and an incident of battery or extreme cruelty . The self-petitioner remains
eligible for V AWA benefits.[43] In addition, loss or renunciation of the qualifying relative’ s U.S.
citizenship or LPR status does not adversely af fect an approved V AWA self-petitioner ’s ability to adjust
status.[44]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 794/2618