Pre-Departure Marriages
It is not uncommon for some derivative refugee children to marry prior to admission as a refugee to
the United States. The marriage severs their familial relationship to the principal refugee. In February
2003, USCIS of ficers began requiring derivative children of the principal refugee (RE-3 classification)
to sign an RE-3 Notice on Pre-Departure Marriage and Declaration statement. 
By signing the notice, RE-3 derivatives acknowledge that they will be ineligible for admission as a
derivative refugee if they marry prior to being admitted to the United States. Refugee derivatives who
sign this notice and who marry prior to being admitted to the United States as a refugee may also be
found inadmissible for fraud or misrepresentation should they present themselves as unmarried
children. A pre-departure change to marital status will render the applicant ineligible for admission as a
derivative refugee regardless of whether the alien signs an RE-3 Notice.
Pre-Departure Divorces
A derivative spouse (RE-2 classification) of a refugee who divorces the principal refugee prior to
seeking admission as a refugee to the United States is ineligible for admission as a derivative
refugee. Of ficers should note that if USCIS did not ask the derivative spouse about their marital status
or eligibility at the time of admission, the derivative spouse may not have committed an act of fraud or
misrepresentation.
Non-Existent or Fraudulent Relationships
Some derivative refugees may be untruthful on the refugee application about their marital status. A
derivative spouse (RE-2) may not have been legally married to the principal applicant when
the refugee application was filed, although they may have publicly presented themselves as husband
and wife. A derivative child (RE-3) may have been married when the application was filed but claimed
to be single. Additionally , applicants who have no relationship to the principal could claim a
relationship as either a spouse or child, and likewise the principal may claim a relationship to them in
order to gain access to the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program. 
In all three scenarios, refugee adjustment allows most grounds of inadmissibility to be waived for
humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity , or when it is otherwise in the public interest. Many
applicants who may be found inadmissible due to relationship fraud or ineligibility due to not having
the requisite relationship at time of admission may be deserving of a waiver of that ground, especially
those who have or had a legitimate familial relationship or common law relationship to the principal. An
officer should use their discretion when granting these waivers and should consider the totality of the
circumstances, including whether or not the derivative has had an actual relationship to the principal. 
2. Child Status Protection Act Provisions8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1794/2618