The applicant must show that denial of admission to or removal from the United States would
result in extreme hardship to his or her qualifying relative (or if the applicant is a V AWA self-
petitioner , to himself or herself); and 
The applicant must show that a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted.[2]  
General Guidelines for Adjudication of Fraud and W illful Misrepresentation W aivers
Step 1Determine whether the applicant is a V AWA self-petitioner or has established the
relationship to the qualifying relative.
Step 2Determine whether the applicant has demonstrated that his or her qualifying relative
(or the applicant himself or herself, if a V AWA self-petitioner) would suf fer extreme
hardship if the applicant were denied admission to or removed from the United
States as a result of the denial of the waiver . 
Step 3Determine whether the waiver should be granted as a matter of discretion,
particularly whether positive equities such as humanitarian relief to a qualifying
relative and family unity overcome negative factors such as fraud and willful
misrepresentation.
B. W aiver Adjudication
1. Determine Whether the Applicant Has a Qualifying Relative
For cases other than V AWA self-petitioners, the applicant must have a qualifying relative who is either
the applicant’ s:
U.S. citizen parent or spouse;
 Lawful permanent resident (LPR) parent or spouse; or
U.S. citizen fiancé(e) petitioner (for K-1 or K-2 visa applicants only).
U.S. citizen or LPR children are not qualifying relatives. 
A VAWA self-petitioner does not need a qualifying relative, since the V AWA self-petitioner may claim
extreme hardship to himself or herself. The V AWA self-petitioner may also claim extreme hardship to a
U.S. citizen, LPR, or qualified alien parent or child.[3]
The evidence needed to establish that an applicant has a qualifying relative is generally the same as
the evidence required to establish the underlying relationship for a relative or fiancé(e) visa petition.
2. Make an Extreme Hardship Determination
An applicant must demonstrate that his or her qualifying relative (or the applicant himself or herself, if
a VAWA self-petitioner) would suf fer extreme hardship if the applicant were refused admission to or
removed from the United States as a result of the denial of the waiver . 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2171/2618