D. Documentation and Evidence
1. Form
An Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card ( Form I-90 ) must be used by an LPR to request
replacement of a PRC expiring within 6 months.[14] Additional reasons for which LPRs must file Form
I-90 include, but are not limited to, replacement of a lost, stolen, destroyed, or mutilated PRC, or when
the LPR’ s name or other biographic information has legally changed since issuance of the PRC.[15]
CPRs may use Form I-90 to request replacement of a PRC that is not expiring within 90 days for
reasons that include, but are not limited to, replacement of a lost, stolen, destroyed, or mutilated PRC,
or when the CPR’ s name or other biographic information has legally changed since issuance of the
PRC.[16] CPRs may not use Form I-90 to request removal of the conditions on residence.[17]
The Form I-90  instructions include a full list of reasons to request replacement of a PRC and further
information on filing requirements for each reason. An applicant must file Form I-90 according to the
form instructions. Applicants can access the current edition of the form on the USCIS website .
2. Fees
An applicant should refer to the Fee Schedule ( Form G-1055 ) for the appropriate fees required for
filing a Form I-90. Any required fees must be submitted at the time of filing.[18]
3. Filing Location
An applicant may submit a Form I-90 by mail or electronic filing as indicated in the form instructions.
However , applicants may not file online if they are requesting a fee waiver .
4. Required Evidence
An applicant should refer to the Form I-90 instructions for required initial evidence based on the
particular reason for which he or she is seeking a replacement card. For example, if an applicant
requests a replacement PRC because the existing card has incorrect data because of DHS error , the
applicant must submit proof of the correct name or biographical data and return the original PRC with
the incorrect data to USCIS when filing Form I-90.
E. Biometrics
1. Application Support Center Appointments
Replacement of a PRC requires submission of biometrics at the USCIS Application Support Center
(ASC ) servicing the applicant’ s place of residence in the United States.[19] USCIS generally schedules
the applicant for a biometrics appointment after receiving a properly filed application. USCIS notifies8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2243/2618