apply for admission as a nonimmigrant without a visa under , for example, the V isa W aiver Program
(VWP).[11]
Once DOS issues the nonimmigrant visa, or the prospective traveler has obtained any required pre-
travel authorization from CBP , the alien generally may travel to the United States using that visa or
travel authorization, if applicable, and apply for admission at a port of entry . CBP  then determines
whether the applicant for admission is inadmissible under any ground, including public charge.
2. Immigrants
An alien who is abroad and is the beneficiary of an approved immigrant visa petition may apply to
DOS for an immigrant visa to allow them to travel to the United States and seek admission to the
United States as an immigrant.[12] As part of the immigrant visa process, DOS determines whether the
applicant is eligible for the visa, which includes a determination of whether the alien has demonstrated
that they are not inadmissible under any of the applicable grounds in INA 212.
Once DOS issues the immigrant visa, the alien may travel to the United States and seek admission as
an immigrant at a port of entry . CBP  determines whether the applicant for admission as an immigrant
is inadmissible under any ground, including public charge.[13]
3. Certain Lawful Permanent Residents Returning to the United States
Lawful permanent residents (LPRs) generally are not considered to be applicants for admission, and
therefore are not subject to inadmissibility determinations upon their return from a trip abroad.
However , in certain limited circumstances, an LPR is considered an applicant for admission and,
therefore, subject to an inadmissibility determination upon the LPR’ s return to the United States.[14]
This inadmissibility determination includes whether the alien is inadmissible under the public charge
ground of inadmissibility .
B. Applicants for Adjustment of Status
The public charge ground of inadmissibility will generally apply to all applicants for adjustment of
status unless they are specifically exempt from the public charge ground of inadmissibility .
The tables below indicate which applicants for adjustment of status are subject to the public charge
ground of inadmissibility:[15]
Family-Based Adjustment of Status Applicants Subject to the Public Charge Ground of
Inadmissibility
Spouses, children, and parents of U.S. citizens[16]
Unmarried sons and daughters of U.S. citizens and their children[17]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1975/2618