As of January 23, 2007, USCIS began accepting NIW petitions on behalf of primary and specialty care
physicians who agree to work full time in areas designated by the HHS as having a shortage of
healthcare professionals (for example, health professional shortage area (HPSA), medically
underserved area (MUA), MUP , and, at the time, physician scarcity areas (PSA)).
In addition, in 2016 the Administrative Appeals Of fice clarified that, regardless of whether the shortage
designation is seemingly limited to primary care physicians, in addition to primary care and specialty
care physicians, medical specialists who agree to practice in any area designated by HHS as having a
shortage of health care professionals may be eligible for the physician NIW .[20]
The Nursing Relief Act[21] requires USCIS to recognize HHS designations of health professionals
without limitation to primary care. Accordingly , USCIS recognizes NIW physicians in primary care and
specialty care. A specialty physician is defined as other than a general practitioner , family practice
practitioner , general internist, obstetrician, or gynecologist. Dentists, chiropractors, podiatrists, and
optometrists do not qualify for the physician scarcity bonus as specialty physicians, and therefore,
cannot qualify for the NIW .
A physician or employer must submit evidence showing that a geographic area is or was designated
by HHS as having a shortage of health care professionals. The designation must be valid at the time
the NIW employment began. If the area loses its HHS designation after the physician starts working, a
physician can remain at the facility and the time worked after that point qualifies as NIW employment
so long as the employment continues to satisfy all other NIW requirements.
Medically Underserved Areas
In designating areas of the country as “underserved,” the Secretary of Health and Human Services
addresses the shortage of family or general medicine and sub-specialist physicians (designations
include HPSA, MUP , and MUA). For work that preceded the filing of the petition, the area must have
been a designated shortage area at the time the work commenced but need not have retained such
designation. For shortage designations, see these sources:
HHS Health Resources and Services Administration to determine if a geographic area is an MUA
or MUP .
HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to determine if a geographic area is an HPSA.
[22]
Physicians serving at V A facilities are not bound by the HHS categories noted above. The V A may
petition for physicians who specialize in various fields of medicine, and the location of the work need
not be in an underserved area.
Time Limit to Complete the Required Medical Service8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1229/2618