1. Initial Filing
Each regional center investor must demonstrate that they invested, or are actively in the process of
investing, lawfully obtained capital in a new commercial enterprise located within a designated
regional center in the United States.[3] The investor must also demonstrate that this investment will
create at least 10 direct or indirect full-time jobs for qualifying employees.[4]
For petitions filed on or after May 14, 2022, the investor can only file Form I-526E  after the regional
center files the Application for Approval of an Investment in a Commercial Enterprise ( Form I-956F )
(project application).[5] The investor may file Form I-526E while the project application remains
pending. However , USCIS does not make a final decision on a regional center investor ’s immigrant
visa petition until USCIS makes a final decision on the regional center ’s associated project application.
To show that a regional center investor has invested, or is actively in the process of investing, in a new
commercial enterprise located within a regional center , the investor should submit a receipt notice
documenting that the regional center has filed a project application and evidence of the investment.[6]
2. Previous Determinations and Amendments
When adjudicating Form I-526  petitions, USCIS generally defers to prior determinations on regional
center filings and reviews amendments according to the relevant law and policy at the time of the filing
date.
Petitions Filed Before May 14, 2022
If the regional center requested to expand its geographic area, the instructions for Application for
Regional Center Designation Under the Immigrant Investor Program ( Form I-924 )[7] required that a
Form I-924 amendment be filed, and approved, to expand the regional center ’s geographic area. The
Form I-924 amendment must have been approved before a Form I-526  petitioner may demonstrate
eligibility at the time of filing their petition based on an investment in the expanded area.[8]
There are distinct eligibility requirements at each stage of the EB-5 immigration process. Where
USCIS has previously evaluated and approved certain aspects of an investment, USCIS generally
defers to that favorable determination at a later stage in the process. This deference policy promotes
predictability for immigrant investors, new commercial enterprises, and their employees. Deference
also conserves agency resources, which should not be used to duplicate previous ef forts.
As a general matter , USCIS does not reexamine determinations made earlier in the EB-5 process, and
presumes that such earlier determinations were properly decided. When USCIS has previously
concluded that an economic methodology is reasonable to project future job creation as applied to the
facts of a particular project, USCIS defers to this determination for all related adjudications directly
linked to the specific project for which the economic methodology was previously approved.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1277/2618