Applicants must, at a minimum, have had contact with an LEA  with jurisdiction[71] over the crime
regarding their victimization, unless they qualify for an age-based exemption or a trauma-based
exception.[72] It is suf ficient for applicants to provide credible evidence to document that they have
reported the victimization, including any crime where the acts of traf ficking constitute at least one
central reason for the commission of that crime, to law enforcement having jurisdiction over the
conduct at issue.
Applicants may establish that they have cooperated with reasonable requests for assistance by
submitting a Declaration for Trafficking V ictim ( Form I-914, Supplement B ).
Applicants may also be able to satisfy the requirement to comply with reasonable requests for
assistance by reporting their victimization to law enforcement by email, letter , or other reporting
mechanisms and complying with reasonable requests for assistance (including, if requested, rerouting
the report through the proper channels or to the proper authority with jurisdiction).
If the law enforcement agency that received the report reasonably requests that the applicant instead
contact a dif ferent law enforcement agency for investigation or development of the information, non-
compliance with that reasonable law enforcement request for assistance may render the applicant
ineligible for T nonimmigrant status.
Alternatively , applicants may demonstrate that they qualify for an exemption due to age or exception
due to trauma.
Form I-914, Supplement B provides valuable evidence of the victim’ s cooperation with reasonable
requests for assistance but is not a required form of evidence to establish eligibility for T nonimmigrant
status. Completing Form I-914, Supplement B is a discretionary LEA  decision. Although USCIS does
not require applicants to submit the Form I-914, Supplement B, of ficers may request one depending
on the circumstances.
For example, if an applicant mentions significant cooperation with an LEA  in their personal af fidavit but
does not provide suf ficient detail regarding this cooperation for USCIS to determine eligibility , USCIS
may request additional evidence detailing the cooperation, including, but not limited to, Form I-914,
Supplement B.
Reporting to an LEA  without any authority to detect, investigate, or prosecute the underlying traf ficking
generally does not satisfy the reporting requirement.
However , if an applicant submits credible evidence of reporting to an LEA  outside of the physical
jurisdiction where the traf ficking occurred, this would satisfy the reporting requirement as long as the
record establishes that the LEA  had jurisdiction to detect, investigate, or prosecute the traf ficking
crime, or the LEA  connected the applicant with the agency with jurisdiction and contact between the
applicant and the agency with jurisdiction has occurred.[73]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 665/2618