Stock certificates or other evidence of ownership interests, standing alone, generally are not suf ficient
to establish that a qualifying relationship exists. For instance, in the case of a corporation, documents
such as the corporate stock certificate ledger , stock certificate registry , corporate bylaws, and the
minutes of relevant annual shareholder meetings when appropriate, should also be examined to
determine the total number of shares issued, the exact number issued to the shareholder , and the
subsequent percentage ownership and its ef fect on corporate control.
When appropriate, of ficers should ask a petitioning company to provide all agreements relating to the
voting rights of owners, the distribution of profits, the management and direction of the petitioning
company , and any other factor af fecting actual control of the entity . Without full disclosure of all
relevant documents, of ficers may be unable to determine the elements of ownership and control.[4]
Officers may require evidence of the acquisition of the actual ownership interest (such as capital
investment, wire transfers, stock purchase agreements, or others) as additional supporting evidence.
[5]
The most common types of business relationships that are not qualifying under the L  category are
those based on contractual, licensing, and franchise agreements. Additional non-qualifying
relationships include arrangements such as less than 50-50 joint ventures and charter membership
arrangements.[6]
Publicly traded companies regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may
submit copies of annual reports, where probative, as evidence of their af filiates and subsidiaries. Most
annual reports list the company’ s foreign af filiates and subsidiaries, along with the company’ s
ownership interest (for example, controlling, not controlling, and joint venture). Annual reports are
frequently prepared by major accounting firms and include audited financial statements. Evidence may
also include copies of SEC Forms 10K and 10Q.
Where one or both of the qualifying entities has undergone or will undergo a corporate reorganization
(such as merger , spin-of f, or acquisition), of ficers must determine whether the qualifying relationship
between the entities will exist following the reorganization. Of ficers should therefore review standard
documents from the merger , including but not limited to: the letter of intent, minutes from shareholder
meetings, the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust filings (if applicable), as well as the ultimate merger
agreement. Unless the company is publicly traded, of ficers may encounter privacy concerns regarding
proprietary or confidential transactional and financial information. In such a case, if a petitioner is
unable or unwilling to provide information, adjudicators should determine whether the existing record
leads to a finding that the petitioner ’s burden has been met.  
2. Parent and Subsidiary
A parent is a firm, corporation, or other legal entity that owns another firm, corporation, or other legal
entity that qualifies as its subsidiary .[7] A parent owns a subsidiary when it:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 492/2618