If two living birth parents release a child for adoption to an orphanage or institution that is authorized
under the Convention country's child welfare laws to act in such a capacity , the petitioner does not
need to establish that the birth parents are incapable of providing proper care. However , irrevocable
consent by the birth parents and legal custodian is still required.
B. Sole Parent or Surviving Legal Parent
1. Sole or Surviving Parent
A birth parent may be a sole parent or a surviving parent if:[7]
The other parent is deceased (for a surviving parent), or the competent authority has determined
that the other parent disappeared, abandoned, or deserted the child (for a sole parent); and
The child has not acquired a new legal parent under the law .[8]
The sole or surviving parent must irrevocably consent to the adoption in writing. However , the
petitioner does not have to demonstrate that a sole or surviving parent is incapable of providing proper
care for the child.
2. Disappearance
Disappearance means that a child's parent has unaccountably or inexplicably passed out of the child's
life so that their whereabouts are unknown, there is no reasonable expectation of their reappearance,
and there has been a reasonable ef fort to locate them, as determined by a competent authority in
accordance with the laws of the Convention country .[9]
A stepparent who is deemed to be a child's legal parent may be found to have disappeared if it is
established that the stepparent either never knew of the child's existence, or never knew of their legal
relationship to the child.
3. Abandonment 
Abandonment means that a child’ s parent: 
Has willfully forsaken all parental rights, obligations, and claims to the child, as well as all
custody of the child without intending to transfer , or without transferring, these rights to any
specific individual or entity; and
Surrendered such rights, obligations, claims, control, and possession. 
Knowledge that a specific person may adopt a child does not void an abandonment; however ,
abandonment cannot be conditioned on the child's adoption by that specific person. If the parent
entrusted the child to a third party for custodial care in anticipation of, or preparation for , adoption:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 983/2618