then proceed without further delay provided the applicant remains eligible to immediately adjust under
the new classification.
C. Petition Considerations
Prior to adjudication of an adjustment application, USCIS may allow the applicant to transfer a pending
adjustment application to a dif ferent petition or basis regardless of whether the petition that forms the
new basis for the pending adjustment application has already been approved or is pending, if
allowable by law or regulation and provided certain requirements are met.[12]
Only one petition may form the basis of an adjustment application at any given time. The applicant
must clearly designate in writing which petition serves as the new basis of the adjustment application.
Several steps are required to ensure that the petition that forms the new basis for the pending
adjustment application is properly matched with a pending adjustment application. 
If concurrent filing is allowed, then transfer applicants are generally instructed to: 
Submit the new petition (with proper filing fee and signature) with a signed letter requesting that
his or her pending adjustment application be transferred to the new petition. Include a cover
sheet (preferably highlighted with colored paper) stating, “REQUEST  FOR TRANSFER OF
PENDING FORM I-485 (CASE #) TO ENCLOSED PETITION.”
Include a copy of the adjustment application’ s receipt notice with the new petition filing. 
Include evidence of eligibility for the new immigrant category in support of the transfer request to
transfer to a new eligibility basis. A new adjustment application and fee are not required (see INA
245(i)  exception above). 
If concurrent filing is not allowed, then transfer applicants are generally instructed to wait until the new
petition is approved before submitting a signed letter requesting the pending adjustment application be
transferred, with the other documentation mentioned above. 
Once an applicant makes a request to transfer a pending adjustment application from one basis to
another and if the transfer request is granted, the original petition no longer supports the adjustment
application. This rule applies even if the original petition is approved. The transfer request must be
made suf ficiently ahead of the time of adjudication of the adjustment application in order to give
USCIS reasonable time to match up the replacement petition with the pending adjustment application.
An of ficer must deny transfer requests received on or after the date the adjustment application is
finally adjudicated. 
1. Approved Petition to an Approved Petition
The beneficiary of an approved petition with a pending adjustment application may replace the
approved petition with a dif ferent approved petition as the basis for the pending adjustment
application. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1506/2618