pending for 180 calendar days or more. If the adjustment application has been pending for fewer than
180 calendar days, portability does not apply and the petition is not approvable.[15]
An immigrant visa must be available at the time an applicant files an adjustment application.[16]
However , a visa does not need to remain continuously available for the 180 days to accrue. The fact
that a visa number becomes unavailable after the filing of the adjustment application does not stop the
number of days required for Form I-140 petition portability eligibility from accruing.
6. New Job in Same or Similar Occupational Classification
To determine whether a new job of fer is valid for purposes of INA  204(j) portability , the new job of fer
must be in either the same occupational classification or a similar occupational classification as the job
specified in the underlying Form I-140 petition.
Same Occupational Classification
The term “same occupational classification” means an occupation that resembles in every relevant
respect the occupation for which the underlying employment-based immigrant visa petition was
approved.[17] Accordingly , USCIS evaluates whether the jobs are identical, resembling in every
relevant respect, or the same kind of category or thing when determining whether two job of fers are in
the same occupational classification.
Similar Occupational Classification
The term “similar occupational classification” means an occupation that shares essential qualities or
has a marked resemblance or likeness with the occupation for which the underlying employment-
based immigrant visa petition was approved.[18] When determining whether two job of fers are in
similar occupational classifications, USCIS evaluates whether the jobs share essential qualities or
have a marked resemblance or likeness.
Factors to Consider
To determine if the new job of fer is in the same or similar occupational classification as the job listed
on the petition, of ficers evaluate the totality of the circumstances. As part of this evaluation, of ficers
may consider and compare various factors and evidence relating to the jobs. Relevant factors include,
but are not limited to:
The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) occupational codes assigned to the respective jobs;
Job duties;
Job titles;
The required skills and experience;
The educational and training requirements;
Any licenses or certifications specifically required;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1639/2618