Criterion 4:  Evidence that the beneficiary has a record of major commercial or critically
acclaimed successes as evidenced by such indicators as title, rating, standing in the field,
box office receipts, motion pictures or television ratings, and other occupational
achievements reported in trade journals, major newspapers, or other publications.[62]
represent major successes in the relevant field. If demonstrating critically acclaimed success, the
evidence should demonstrate that the beneficiary’ s work has received public-facing praise or
positive reviews in the relevant field, such as from professional art, television, or film critics.
Criterion 5:  Evidence that the beneficiary has received significant recognition for
achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies, or other recognized experts
in the field in which the beneficiary is engaged. Such testimonials must be in a form which
clearly indicates the author's authority , expertise, and knowledge of the beneficiary's
achievements.[63]
To meet this criterion, the evidence must establish the beneficiary has received significant
recognition for one or more achievements from an organization, critic, government agency , or other
recognized expert in the field. The word significant in this criterion modifies recognition rather than
achievements. Accordingly , although the beneficiary must have one or more achievements, the
significance of the recognition is based on who is recognizing the achievements.
A testimonial written on behalf of an organization or government agency should explain the basis for
the author ’s knowledge including the author ’s connection to the organization or agency , and the
significance of the organization or agency within the relevant field. Likewise, a testimonial from a
critic or a recognized expert should explain the basis of the author ’s knowledge and describe the
author ’s credentials including the author ’s expertise in the relevant field.[64] The author should also
describe and explain the significance of the achievements the author is recognizing.
In all cases, a submitted testimonial should detail any achievements that are being recognized by
the organization, agency , or individual. However , the testimonial need not describe other types of
recognition that the beneficiary has received for a noted achievement. Instead, the testimonial itself
may qualify as significant recognition under this criterion when the significance of the recognizing
organization, agency , or individual is established.
Criterion 6:  Evidence that the beneficiary has either commanded a high salary or will
command a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services in relation to others in
the field, as evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.[65]
To demonstrate that the petitioner meets this criterion, the petitioner should provide appropriate
evidence establishing that the beneficiary’ s past or future compensation is or will be high relative to
others working in the field.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 551/2618