creating entity , as applicable) if USCIS determines, in its discretion, that approval of the petition,
application, or benefit is contrary to the national interest for reasons relating to threats to public safety
or national security , or if the petition, application, or benefit is predicated on or involved fraud, deceit,
intentional material misrepresentation, or criminal misuse.[14]
The exercise of discretion in all situations may not be arbitrary , inconsistent, or dependent on
intangible or imagined circumstances.
1. National Interest Grounds
In general, under INA 203(b)(5)(N)  threats to public safety may include, but are not limited to,
aggravated felonies as defined at INA 101(a)(43) . National security concerns may include, but are not
limited to, activities described in INA 212(a)(3)(A)  (general security and related grounds), (B) (terrorist
activities), or (F) (association with terrorist organizations) or INA 237(a)(4)(A)  (general security and
related grounds) or (B) (terrorist activities).
2. Fraud and Related Grounds
Fraud and Intentional Material Misrepresentation  
The statutory language of INA 203(b)(5)(O)  differs from fraud and material misrepresentation findings
otherwise made by USCIS for admissibility under INA 212(a)(6)(C) . Existing agency guidance
regarding fraud and misrepresentation in the inadmissibility context is specific to fraud or
misrepresentation committed by an individual or entity against the U.S. government.
However , the authority to take adverse actions based on determinations under INA 203(b)(5)(O)  with
respect to whether an EB-5 petition, application, or benefit is predicated on or involves fraud or
misrepresentation is broader and not limited solely to fraud or misrepresentations made by an
individual or entity against the U.S. government.
While general USCIS guidance on inadmissibility concerning willfulness, intent, and materiality is
relevant to determining whether an EB-5 petition, application, or benefit was predicated on or involves
fraud or misrepresentation, the guidance below expands on that existing guidance to cover the
additional situations covered by INA 203(b)(5)(O) .[15]
USCIS interprets the statutory terms, generally , in accordance with their plain language meanings and
in each case as related to the petition, application, or benefit.
For fraud findings made under INA 203(b)(5)(O) , USCIS generally considers a petition, application, or
benefit to have been predicated on or involve fraud based on a finding that an individual or entity
related to the petition, application, or benefit knowingly made a false representation of or knowingly
concealed a material fact with intent, for example, to induce action or to deceive.[16]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1319/2618