SQ would face psychological trauma based on the fear that OP  would be harassed or threatened
because of her sexual orientation. SQ’ s trauma based on her fear that OP  will be ostracized and
persecuted in OP’ s native country based on her sexual orientation and sex are factors that in the
totality of circumstances would ordinarily rise to the level of extreme hardship.
Scenario 7
TU married his U.S. citizen wife, VW , 3 years ago. TU seeks a waiver on the ground that VW would
suffer extreme hardship if TU were denied admission to the United States. Before becoming a U.S.
citizen, VW and some members of her family fled persecution from her native country , and they were
granted asylum in the United States. TU is of the same nationality . VW submits a credible, sworn
statement that she would remain in the United States and separate from TU if the waiver is denied.
The evidence also supports the conclusion that the return of TU to that country would cause VW
particular anxiety and psychological stress, due both to the limitations on VW’ s ability to visit her
husband and to the harm TU may face in the country of return due to his relationship to VW .
Analysis of Scenario 7
These facts generally would favor a finding of extreme hardship. TU and VW are of the same
nationality , and TU would return to the country from which VW fled. The fact that VW was previously
granted asylum from the country of relocation is a particularly significant factor that would often weigh
heavily in support of a finding of extreme hardship. The fact that VW and members of her family were
previously granted asylum from the country of return shows that she is at risk of persecution if she
were to return to that country to even visit her husband.
She has also submitted credible evidence indicating that she would suf fer additional anxiety and
psychological stress from the harm her husband may face due to his relationship with her and her
family . The totality of these circumstances, including the particularly significant factor of VW’ s grant of
asylum, would generally result in a finding of extreme hardship.
Scenario 8
XY married her U.S. citizen husband, ZA, 9 years ago. XY  seeks a waiver on the basis that ZA  would
suffer extreme hardship if XY  were denied admission to the United States. XY  and ZA  have a 3-year
old son and a 2-year old daughter . XY submits credible evidence showing that she is the primary
caretaker of the children and that ZA  is the primary income earner . His wages are not suf ficient to pay
for childcare and the couple does not have family that can provide childcare for the children.
ZA submits a credible, sworn statement indicating that he will remain in the United States with their
children separated from XY  if the waiver is denied. The evidence also indicates that XY  will have very
limited employment opportunities in the country of return because of her limited education. Whatever
income XY  will be able to earn in the country of return will be spent on her subsistence and will be
insuf ficient to allow her to contribute to childcare or other family needs in the United States. Due to the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2137/2618