The blanket petition program allows a petitioner to seek continuing approval of itself, its parent, and its
branches, subsidiaries, and af filiates as qualifying organizations and, later , classify under the L
nonimmigrant category any number of beneficiaries employed by itself, its parent, or some of its
branches, subsidiaries, and af filiates. USCIS adjudicates blanket L  petitions based on the same
general principles used in adjudicating the qualifying relationship of individual L-1 petitions. However ,
some dif ferences exist.
Who May File Blanket Petition
The blanket L-1 procedure is intended for larger international organizations. Only entities involved in
commercial trade or services may use the blanket petition.[6] Therefore, noncommercial organizations,
like churches, may not use the blanket petition.
A U.S. petitioner may file a blanket petition to receive continuing approval of itself and its parent,
branches, specified subsidiaries, and af filiates as qualifying organizations.
B. Blanket Petitioner Requirements
The petitioner must show that:
The petitioner and each of the entities included are engaged in commercial trade or services;
The petitioner has an of fice in the United States that has been doing business for 1 year or
more;
The petitioner has three or more domestic and foreign branches, subsidiaries, or af filiates; and
The petitioner and the other qualifying organizations have obtained approval of petitions for at
least 10 “L” managers, executives, or specialized knowledge workers during the previous 12
months; or have U.S. subsidiaries or af filiates with combined annual sales of at least $25 million;
or have a U.S. work force of at least 1,000 employees.[7]
C. Qualifying Organizations Under the Blanket Petition
The petitioner must list all the foreign entities and all the U.S. entities that it wants to have approved
and establish who has ownership and control of all the entities. USCIS can only approve those entities
meeting the definition of a qualifying organization.[8]
If there is a question about ownership or control for any of the petitioned entities (or both), of ficers
should issue a Request for Evidence to make a determination. USCIS names all approvable entities
on a list included with the approval notice of the blanket petition.
D. Beneficiaries of L-1 Blanket Petitions
Once a blanket petition is approved, individual beneficiaries may receive L-1 classification under the
approved blanket petition. The focus of the adjudication is the individual beneficiary’ s qualifications8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 473/2618