In order to withdraw the waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty and file a joint petition, the CPR
must complete the following requirements:
Request to withdraw the waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty in writing to the USCIS
office that issued the receipt notice or most recent correspondence, or in person at an interview;
Attend an in-person interview or appointment at a USCIS field of fice to withdraw the waiver
based on battery or extreme cruelty in writing if a written request was not previously provided
and to confirm withdrawal of the waiver in person; and
File a new joint Form I-751 that includes both the CPR and petitioning spouse or stepparent’ s
signatures with the correct fee or fee waiver request.[49]
To ensure ef ficient processing of the request, USCIS encourages the CPR to withdraw the waiver
based on battery or extreme cruelty before filing a new joint Form I-751 with the appropriate fee or fee
waiver request. If the waiver filing is at a USCIS service center , USCIS schedules the CPR for an in-
person appointment to confirm the CPR’ s withdrawal of the waiver .
If the CPR completes the above requirements, USCIS processes the withdrawal of the waiver based
on battery and extreme cruelty , sends notification to the CPR acknowledging the withdrawal, and
adjudicates the newly filed joint petition. If the joint petition is filed late, USCIS excuses the late filing
based on good cause and extenuating circumstances as long as the initial waiver was properly filed.
[50] The CPR and petitioning spouse or stepparent may be required to attend an in-person interview
together for the joint petition.[51]
If the CPR does not complete the above requirements or decides to continue with the waiver filing,
USCIS holds the joint filing in abeyance until the waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty is
adjudicated. USCIS generally does not adjudicate the joint filing until 8 U.S.C. 1367 no longer applies
to the CPR. Withdrawing the waiver does not impact a CPR’ s ability to file a new waiver or change the
filing basis of the joint petition to a waiver request based on battery or extreme cruelty in the future.
Changing the Filing Basis from a W aiver Based on Battery or Extreme Cruelty to Another W aiver
CPRs may change the basis of their filing from a waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty to
another waiver by submitting a written request to the USCIS of fice that issued the receipt notice or
most recent correspondence. The request may also be made in person at an interview . If the CPR
requests to change the filing basis at an interview , the interviewing of ficer should conduct the interview
and adjudicate the petition after providing the CPR an opportunity to submit evidence in support of the
new filing basis. A new receipt number is not required.
Adding a Filing Basis in Cases Involving a Battery or Extreme Cruelty W aiver
A CPR who filed a Form I-751 waiver may add another basis to the waiver filing. There are no
restrictions on the number of bases upon which a CPR may file. The request to add a filing basis may
be made in writing to the USCIS of fice that issued the receipt notice or most recent8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1392/2618