Discrepancies in statements do not necessarily discredit the witness.[26] A truthful witness, in speaking
of a past event, might not repeatedly reproduce the facts in their entirety without some change in
detail.
Witnesses who have signed statements might later indicate that they wish to retract the statement, or
they might give contrary testimony when later called upon to testify . USCIS may not prevent such
witnesses from retracting or changing prior statements. However , contradictory statements may
adversely impact the credibility of the witness.[27]
If an of ficer determines that the testimony of a witness is not credible, the written decision or interview
notes or both should indicate this conclusion. However , it generally is not enough to simply say that
the witness is not credible. Instead, the of ficer’s decision should give the specific reason(s) for the
conclusion and refer to evidence in the record that supports the conclusion.
Privileged T estimony
Officers may occasionally encounter the issue of privilege. A testimonial privilege allows the person
who invokes it to bar testimony that would violate the privilege. Examples include the privilege against
self-incrimination and spousal privileges.
Each privilege dif fers slightly in how it applies, such as whose testimony may be barred and who may
invoke the privilege. The scope of the material covered by the privilege also dif fers.[28]
Sworn Statements
An of ficer may also take a sworn statement. A sworn statement is a written declaration given under an
oath (or af firmation). It must be witnessed and signed and contain an accurate record of the questions
asked, and answers received. The sworn statement becomes part of the permanent, of ficial record
and may be used in a subsequent proceeding or prosecution. The determination of benefit eligibility
may depend on the evidence in the sworn statement and the interview record it creates may be
particularly important in complex cases, such as those involving national security or fraud concerns.
An of ficer taking a sworn statement must focus on gathering all necessary information to make a
decision. The of ficer must structure the statement in a manner that is logical, using a clear progression
of facts and questions. Of ficers should explore each relevant fact uncovered in a statement by further
questioning to the extent necessary before changing topics.
When a sworn statement is taken and the af fiant signs it, the af fiant (the person making the statement)
or authorized representative may request a copy of the statement. Upon request, USCIS provides a
copy of the signed sworn statement to an af fiant, without fee, at the conclusion of the interview where
the statement was taken.[29]
3. Expert and Opinion Evidence8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 275/2618