has 5% or more ownership in the business. The purpose of this form is to show the applicant has
adequate means of financial support and is unlikely to become a public charge.[7]
6. Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record (Form I-693)
Form I-693  is required for adjustment of status applicants who either did not receive a medical
examination prior to their admission to the United States or who do not have evidence of an overseas
medical examination in their file. A medical examination and vaccination record must be documented
for most adjustment of status applications and completed as closely as possible to submission of the
adjustment application.[8]If not completed overseas, the medical examination must be completed by a
designated civil surgeon in the United States and documented on this form.[9]
7. Certified Copies of Arrest Records and Court Dispositions
All applicants that have previously been arrested are required to submit original or court-certified
copies of the arrest records, court dispositions or both. If an applicant’ s fingerprints reveal an arrest
record, the applicant’ s A-file should contain a Record of Arrest and Prosecution (RAP) sheet.
If there is an arrest record, the applicant must submit an original or certified copy of the of ficial arrest
report or other statement by the arresting agency and of ficial court records showing the disposition of
all arrests, detentions, or convictions regardless of where in the world the arrest occurred. Applicants
are not required to submit records for minor traf fic violations, records that are not drug or alcohol-
related, did not result in an arrest, or in which the only penalty was a fine of less than $500 or points
on a driver ’s license.
8. Evidence of Underlying Basis to Adjust Status[10]
An of ficer should verify the immigrant category indicated on Form I-485  as the basis for adjustment.
The applicant can attach: 
A copy of the Form I-797  Approval Notice for an approved underlying immigrant visa petition;
The underlying immigrant visa petition together with the Form I-485, if concurrently filing; or 
A copy of the Form I-797 Receipt Notice for an underlying immigrant visa petition that remains
pending. 
Certain adjustment applicants, however , are not required to have an underlying petition. These
applicants include:
Asylees;
Refugees; 
Applicants eligible for certain adjustment of status programs based on certain public laws;[11]
Persons born under diplomatic status in the United States;[12]
Persons applying for Creation of Record; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1447/2618