When adjudicating benefit requests filed by or for the protected person before the 8 U.S.C. 1367
protections applied, of ficers should review the immigration records to determine if the person filed a
request for an address change.[31] In general, of ficers should use the preferred mailing address listed
on the individual’ s benefit form under adjudication for notices, correspondence, or secure identity
documents related to that form unless the person has changed their address for that specific form with
USCIS or an exception to the policy applies.
There are certain exceptions to this policy , such as when the underlying basis for an Application to
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ), is changed from a Form I-130  to a
Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ), filed as a V AWA self-petition.
USCIS changes the mailing address of the pending ancillary forms, such as the Form I-765  and
Application for Travel Documents, Parole Documents, and Arrival/Departure Records ( Form I-131 ) to
the safe mailing address on the V AWA self-petition. USCIS changes the mailing address on the Form
I-485 to the safe mailing address on the V AWA self-petition after approval of the petition.
Guide to Mailing Address Procedures for Protected Persons
The table below outlines common scenarios relevant to safe address procedures. Of ficers should
follow the instructions below to ensure all notices and secure identity documents are sent to the
correct location.
Protected Persons With a Representative
If the pr otected per son… Then
Provided their representative’ s address as
the safe or preferred mailing address.USCIS sends original and courtesy copies of notices
and secure identity documents to the address of the
protected person’ s representative.
Provided a safe or preferred mailing
address, which is not their representative’ s
address, and selected the options on the
Form G-28  for all original notices and
secure identity documents to be sent to
their representative.According to the preferences indicated by the
protected person on the Form G-28, USCIS sends all
original notices and secure identity documents to the
representative listed on the Form G-28. USCIS only
sends a courtesy copy of a notice to the protected
person at their safe or preferred mailing address.
Provided only a physical address.
For victim-based forms, USCIS always sends all
notices or secure identity documents to the address of
the protected person’ s representative, regardless of
their selections on the Form G-28.[32]
For non-victim-based forms,[33] USCIS sends original
notices or secure identity documents to the physical
address listed on the Form G-28. The representative8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 183/2618