Under the Calixto Agreement,[27] if the applicant was not discharged as of September 22, 2022 or had
received an uncharacterized discharge from the U.S. Army by that date, the Army considers the
applicant to have served honorably and certifies a Form N-426  on their behalf even if they did not
attend initial entry training.
Applicants are required to submit a certified Form N-426  signed by a person authorized by the U.S.
Army to certify the form. Applicants may also provide a copy of the September 22, 2022, Calixto
Agreement with their naturalization application and with their certified Form N-426 as a substitute for
identifying the type and duration of service in the Form N-426, and as evidence of honorable service
or an under honorable conditions discharge.[28] Including the agreement and annotating on the
Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 ) and Form N-426 with "Calixto" at the top helps USCIS
identify class members and provide for more ef ficient processing.[29]
2. General Eligibility Requirements
Eligible Candidates
To be eligible for the MA VNI program, the DOD requires applicants to be in one of the following
immigration categories or authorized stays at the time of enlistment into the U.S. armed forces:
Asylee;
Refugee;
Beneficiary of Temporary Protected Status (TPS);
Person granted deferred action by USCIS under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
(DACA) policy; or
Nonimmigrant in any of the following categories: E, F , H, I, J, K, L, M, O, P , Q, R, S, T, TC, TD,
TN, U, or V .
Valid Status for 2 Years
The DOD requires most applicants for MA VNI to have been in a valid status in one of the eligible
immigration categories or authorized stays listed above for at least 2 years immediately preceding the
date of enlistment. The applicant is not required to be in the same qualifying category or authorized
stay listed above for those 2 years on the date of enlistment.
The DOD may exempt or waive the 2-year requirement for certain applicants. Specifically , the DOD
does not require DACA  recipients to meet the 2-year requirement. In addition, the DOD will consider
waiving the requirement that an applicant to the MA VNI program be in valid immigration status or
within a period of authorized stay at the time of enlistment on a case-by-case basis under certain
circumstances.[30]
3. Other Factors to Consider8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2541/2618