Mere possession of a Permanent Resident Card (PRC) for the period of time required for physical
presence does not in itself establish the applicant’ s physical presence for naturalization purposes. The
applicant must demonstrate actual physical presence in the United States through documentation.
USCIS will review all of the relevant records to assist with the determination of whether the applicant
has met the required period of physical presence. The applicant's testimony will also be considered in
determining whether the applicant met the required period of physical presence.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See INA 316(a) . See 8 CFR 316.2 . 
[^ 2] See Chapter 3, Continuous Residence [ 12 USCIS-PM D.3 ].
[^ 3] USCIS will only count residence in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands on or
after November 28, 2009, as time counted for physical presence within the United States for
naturalization purposes.
Chapter 5 - Modifications and Exceptions to Continuous Residence and Physical
Presence
Certain classes of applicants may be eligible for a reduced period of continuous residence and
physical presence. Certain applicants may also be eligible to count time residing abroad as residence
and physical presence in the United States for naturalization purposes.
Other applicants may be exempt from the residence or physical presence requirement, or both.
Although not required in all cases, applicants are generally required to have been “physically present
and residing within the United States for an uninterrupted period of at least one year” at some time
after becoming a lawful permanent resident (LPR) and before filing to qualify for an exemption.
A. Qualifying Employment Abroad
The table below serves as a quick reference guide on certain continuous residence and physical
presence provisions for persons residing abroad under qualifying employment. The paragraphs that
follow the table provide further guidance on each class of applicant.
Continuous Residence and Physical Presence for Qualifying Employment Abroad
Employer or V ocation Provision Continuous Residence Physical Presence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2342/2618