Chapter 4 - W aiver of Physical or Mental Disorder Accompanied by Harmful
Behavior
A. General
If the applicant has a physical or mental disorder and behavior associated with the disorder that
poses, may pose, or has posed a threat to the property , safety , or welfare of the applicant or others,
the applicant must file a waiver to overcome this ground of inadmissibility .[1]
The of ficer should remember that the physical or mental disorder alone (that is, without associated
harmful behavior) or harmful behavior alone (without it being associated with a mental or physical
disorder) is not suf ficient to find the applicant inadmissible on health-related grounds.
USCIS may grant this discretionary waiver in accordance with such terms, conditions, and controls (if
any) that USCIS imposes after consulting with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS).[2]
A condition could include the payment of a bond. 
A common condition of granting a waiver for an applicant with a physical or mental disorder with
associated harmful behavior is that the applicant must agree to see a U.S. health care
provider immediately upon admission and make arrangements to receive care and treatment.
The of ficer must determine whether the applicant is eligible for the waiver , consult with CDC, and
determine whether the waiver is warranted as a matter of discretion. 
B. W aiver Eligibility and Adjudication  
1. Qualifying Relationship
Unlike waivers for communicable diseases of public health significance, waivers for physical or mental
disorders with associated harmful behaviors do not require a qualifying relationship.  
2. Documentation for CDC’ s Review
As noted above, USCIS can only grant this waiver after it has consulted with
CDC. However , CDC’ s review of the necessary documents does not constitute a waiver approval.
CDC may recommend that USCIS should make the waiver subject to appropriate terms, conditions, or
controls. 
To obtain CDC’ s review of a waiver application, the of ficer should forward the following documents to
CDC: 
A cover letter that identifies the USCIS of fice requesting the review;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2160/2618