The beneficiary may have acquired specialized knowledge while working for the foreign organization
either in a specialized knowledge, executive, or managerial capacity . The petitioner bears the burden
to show that the beneficiary has the required specialized knowledge at the time of filing.
Eligibility for Another Nonimmigrant Classification is Not a Bar to Eligibility for L-1B Classification
The requirements for L-1B classification are distinct from other visa classifications. Eligibility for one
classification does not preclude eligibility for another . A beneficiary may possess characteristics that
make him or her potentially qualified for two or more distinct nonimmigrant classifications, but may
only hold one classification at a time while in the United States.
For example, the beneficiary may have characteristics that make him or her eligible as a nonimmigrant
specialized knowledge worker (L-1B) and a nonimmigrant specialty occupation worker (H-1B).
Similarly , a beneficiary may qualify for L-1B nonimmigrant status while at the same time possessing
the extraordinary ability or achievement necessary for O-1 nonimmigrant status. Possession of such
dual qualifications does not render the beneficiary ineligible for either classification. Of ficers should
only consider the requirements for the classification sought in the petition, without considering
eligibility requirements for other classifications.
Beneficiaries Working at a Worksite Outside the Petitioning Organization – The V isa Reform Act
L-1B status is not permitted if the beneficiary will be stationed primarily at the worksite of an employer
other than the petitioner or an af filiate, subsidiary , or parent and will be principally under the control
and supervision of the unaf filiated employer .[10] The of ficer must conduct the V isa Reform Act analysis
if the beneficiary will be stationed of fsite as described above.
If a beneficiary’ s work-related activities will be physically performed at the petitioner ’s or its af filiates’
locations, to the extent that such time can be considered to be down time rather than time actually
performing the services described in the petition, a beneficiary might be subject to the bar (since, in
this example, the majority of the beneficiary’ s actual work time is spent at an unaf filiated company or
companies’  work site).
The number of non-af filiated worksite locations where the beneficiary might be stationed, by itself, is
not relevant; what is relevant is the location where the beneficiary will be employed as specified in the
underlying petition. To remain eligible for L-1B classification, any beneficiary with specialized
knowledge who will be stationed primarily at the worksite of another employer must:
Be controlled and supervised by the petitioning employer; and
Be provided in connection with an exchange of products or services between the petitioning
employer and the unaf filiated employer for which specialized knowledge specific to the
petitioning employer is necessary , as opposed to an arrangement that is essentially to provide
labor for hire to the unaf filiated employer .[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 482/2618