recommendation after reviewing the program, policy , and foreign relations aspects of the case and
transmits its recommendation to USCIS.
If USCIS denies the waiver before the referral to the DOS, the applicant may appeal the decision to
the USCIS Administrative Appeals Of fice (AAO). If a waiver is denied due to a negative DOS
recommendation, there is no appeal, but it may be possible for the applicant reapply for a waiver .[2]
DOS-WRD makes a recommendation for waivers based on the remaining grounds, no objection, IGA,
or federal, state, and Conrad 30 programs for foreign medical graduates, and transmits the
recommendation to USCIS. USCIS reviews and issues the decision to the applicant and if applicable,
to the applicant’ s attorney . If a waiver is denied due to a negative DOS recommendation, there is no
appeal of that denial, but it may be possible for the applicant to reapply on a dif ferent basis.[3]
B. Exceptional Hardship
Exchange visitors may be eligible for a waiver of the foreign residence requirement if they can
establish exceptional hardship to their U.S. citizen or LPR spouse or child. Exceptional hardship must
be beyond the normal hardship expected from a temporary relocation or separation.
There are dif ferent levels of hardship. In the context of general immigration waivers, there is
exceptional hardship, extreme hardship, and exceptional and extremely unusual hardship.[4]
Exceptional hardship is more than normal hardship (general disruption), but less than extreme or
exceptional and extremely unusual hardship.[5]
When determining whether the applicant has established that the foreign residence requirement would
result in an exceptional hardship to the U.S. citizen or LPR spouse or child, USCIS of ficers must
evaluate whether:
The qualifying spouse or child or children would experience exceptional hardship if they were to
relocate with the applicant to the country of foreign residence; and
The qualifying spouse or child children would experience exceptional hardship if they were to be
separated from the applicant for the 2-year foreign residence requirement period.
1. Evidence
To request a waiver based on exceptional hardship to the U.S. citizen or LPR spouse or child,
applicants must file a Foreign Residence Requirement waiver application with USCIS.[6]
Applicants must submit evidence to demonstrate that:
The applicant and their dependents, if any , are subject to the foreign residence requirement;[7]
There is a qualifying relationship (U.S. citizen or LPR spouse or child);[8] and
Exceptional hardship would occur for the qualifying relative.[9]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 352/2618