recently filed tax return, the requester must submit additional evidence of the household member ’s
income.[27]
USCIS does not accept Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) statements, Miscellaneous Income (Form
1099-MISC), and Certain Government Payments (Form 1099-G) or other G-1099 forms as proof of
income without the tax returns, tax transcripts, W -2s, or Social Security statements.
If the requestor ’s current situation is dif ferent from the documentation provided, the requestor must
provide an explanation regarding the inconsistency in the documentation. For example, if a tax return
or transcript indicates the requestor is married, but the requestor is currently separated or annotates
single in the fee waiver request, the requestor must provide an additional explanation for the
inconsistency and the documentation for income. The requestor may provide additional documentation
to establish marital status and household size.
A requestor may use  IRS Form 4506-T  (PDF)  to request: 
An income tax transcript;
A copy of Form W -2; or
Form 1099-G. 
Requestors do not need to submit multiple copies of tax returns. If the requestor provided their most
recent tax returns as part of the underlying petition or application filed with the Form I-912, such as a
naturalization application and tax returns, filed concurrently , the requestor does not need to submit
additional tax returns or a transcript. 
Additional Financial Assistance
To establish the total income, a request must include any additional financial assistance (not otherwise
included in a tax return or W -2) including any Social Security income (as reflected on the SSA-1099)
to the adjusted gross income in the tax return. 
The table below includes some types of additional financial assistance that USCIS considers
household income for a fee waiver request. The requestor must provide documentation of each type of
additional financial assistance that applies.
Additional Financial Assistance
Parental support
Child support
Pensions
Royalties8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 231/2618