Since the place-of-celebration rule governs same-sex marriages in exactly the same way that it
governs opposite-sex marriages, unless the marriage is polygamous or otherwise falls within an
exception to the place-of-celebration rule as discussed above, the legal validity of a same-sex
marriage is determined exclusively by the law of the jurisdiction where the marriage was celebrated.
If the same-sex couple now resides in a jurisdiction dif ferent from the one in which they celebrated
their marriage, and that jurisdiction does not recognize same-sex marriages, the of ficer will look to the
law of the state where the marriage was celebrated in order to determine the validity of the marriage.
The domicile state’ s laws and policies on same-sex marriages will not af fect whether USCIS will
recognize a marriage as valid.
2. Validity of Foreign Divorces and Subsequent Remarriages
The validity of a divorce abroad depends on the interpretation of the divorce laws of the foreign
country that granted the divorce and the reciprocity laws in the state of the United States where the
applicant remarried.[10] If the divorce is not final under the foreign law , remarriage to a U.S. citizen is
not valid for immigration purposes.[11]
An of ficer should ensure that the court issuing the divorce had jurisdiction to do so.[12] Foreign divorce
laws may allow for a final decree even when the applicants are not residing in the country . Some
states, however , do not recognize these foreign divorces and do not provide reciprocity . The applicant
and his or her former spouse’ s place of domicile at the time of the divorce is important in determining
whether the court had jurisdiction.
3. Evidence
The burden is on the applicant to establish that he or she is in a valid marriage with his or
her U.S. citizen spouse for the required period of time.[13] A spouse of a U.S. citizen must submit
with the naturalization application an of ficial civil record to establish that the marriage is legal and
valid. If an of ficial civil record cannot be produced, secondary evidence may be accepted on a case-
by-case basis. An of ficer has the right to request an original record if there is doubt as to the
authenticity of the record.[14]
B. Common Law Marriage
The concept of common law marriage presupposes an honest good-faith intention on the part of two
persons, free to marry , to live together as husband and wife from the inception of the relationship.
Some states recognize common law marriages and consider the parties to be married.[15] In order for
a common law marriage to be valid for immigration purposes:
The parties must live in that jurisdiction; and 
The parties must meet the qualifications for common law marriage for that jurisdiction.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2434/2618