was originally af forded that recognition. A person may , for example, have achieved national or
international acclaim in the past but then failed to maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter .
2. Continuing to W ork in the Area of Expertise
To qualify as a person with extraordinary ability , the beneficiary must intend to continue to work in the
area of his or her expertise.[6]
The of ficer may encounter instances where it is dif ficult to determine whether the person’ s intended
employment falls suf ficiently within the bounds of his or her area of extraordinary ability . Some of the
most problematic cases are those in which the beneficiary’ s sustained national or international acclaim
is based on his or her abilities as an athlete, but the beneficiary’ s intent is to come to the United States
and be employed as an athletic coach or manager . Competitive athletics and coaching rely on dif ferent
sets of skills and in general are not in the same area of expertise. However , many extraordinary
athletes have gone on to be extraordinary coaches.
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as
an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching or managing at a national level,
officers can consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim
and extraordinary ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary’ s area
of expertise.
Where the beneficiary has had an extended period of time to establish his or her reputation as a coach
beyond the years in which he or she had sustained national or international acclaim as an athlete,
depending on the specific facts, of ficers may place heavier , or exclusive, weight on the evidence of the
beneficiary’ s achievements as a coach or a manager .
USCIS does not consider a male athlete who has gained the necessary acclaim in men’ s sports and
seeks to compete in women’ s sports in the United States to be seeking to continue work in his area of
extraordinary ability .[7]
3. Entry to Substantially Benefit the United States
To qualify as a person with extraordinary ability , the person’ s entry must substantially benefit the
United States in the future.[8] Although neither the statute nor the regulations specifically define the
statutory phrase “substantially benefit,” it has been interpreted broadly .[9]
Whether the petitioner demonstrates that the person’ s employment meets this requirement requires a
fact-dependent assessment of the case. In some cases, a Request for Evidence (RFE) may be
appropriate if an of ficer is not yet satisfied that the petitioner has met this requirement. There is no
standard rule as to what will substantially benefit the United States. However , male athletes seeking to
enter the United States to compete in women’ s sports do not substantially benefit prospectively the
United States.[10]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1148/2618