discussed above, such as urgency), USCIS considers the following combination of facts contained in
the record to be a strong positive factor:
The person possesses an advanced STEM degree, especially a Ph.D.;
The person will be engaged in work furthering a critical and emerging technology or other STEM
area important to U.S. competitiveness; and
The person is well positioned to advance the proposed STEM endeavor of national importance.
The benefit is especially weighty where the endeavor has the potential to support U.S. national
security or enhance U.S. economic competitiveness, or when the petition is supported by letters from
interested U.S. government agencies as discussed in the next subsection.
5. The Role of Interested Government Agencies or Quasi-Governmental Entities
While not required, letters from interested government agencies or quasi-governmental entities in the
United States (for example federally-funded research and development centers) can be helpful
evidence and, depending on the contents of the letters, can be relevant to all three prongs.
Specifically , letters from an interested government agency or quasi-governmental entity could prove
favorable for purposes of the first prong if, for example, they establish that the agency or entity has
expertise in the proposed endeavor and that the proposed STEM endeavor promises to advance a
critical and emerging technology or is otherwise important for purposes of maintaining the United
States’  technological prominence.
Detailed letters of government or quasi-governmental interest that provide relevant information about
how well-positioned the person is to advance the endeavor are valuable for purposes of assessing the
second prong.[99] Finally , an interested government agency or quasi-governmental entity can help
explain how granting the waiver may outweigh the benefits of the job of fer and labor certification
requirement by explaining a particular urgency or detailing how the United States would benefit from
the prospective alien’ s contributions, even if other U.S. workers are available.
6. Specific Evidentiary Considerations for Entrepreneurs
There may be unique aspects of evidence submitted by an entrepreneur petitioner[100] undertaking a
proposed endeavor , including through an entity based in the United States in which the petitioner
typically possesses (or will possess) an ownership interest, and in which the petitioner maintains (or
will maintain) an active and central role such that the petitioner's knowledge, skills, or experience
would significantly advance the proposed endeavor .
Not every entrepreneur qualifies for a national interest waiver . While USCIS decides each case on its
merits, broad assertions regarding general benefits to the economy and potential to create jobs will not
establish an entrepreneur ’s qualification for a national interest waiver .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1211/2618