The document is a copy of a letter dated several years before the filing date and has been
submitted in support of other previously-filed petitions;
The letter is inconsistent with other evidence in the record or publicly available information, such
as when the petition (or financial documentation if submitted) shows large losses or the
petitioner is in bankruptcy proceedings;
The petition is filed by a successor-in-interest to the company that obtained the labor certification
and the only evidence is a letter from a financial of ficer of the predecessor company to establish
the successor ’s ability to pay; and
The statement does not indicate that the signatory is a financial of ficer of the petitioner .
B. Examples of Other Evidence of Ability to Pay
The petitioner has the burden of establishing its continuing ability to pay the prof fered wage.
Ultimately , USCIS considers all evidence relevant to the petitioner ’s financial strength and the
significance of its business activities, whether listed in the regulation or related to other metrics.[13]
In certain circumstances, the petitioner may submit or USCIS may request additional evidence, such
as profit and loss statements, bank account records, or personnel records. For example, in a case
involving a general partnership where the general partners are personally liable for the partnership’ s
obligations, additional evidence relating to the general partners, such as the partners’  personal tax
returns, may be relevant.
The following subsections describe examples of evidence commonly submitted by petitioners to
establish ability to pay . 
Bank Account Statements
Bank statements show the amount in an account on a given date and do not identify if any funds may
already be obligated for other purposes. Bank statements often reflect funds that were included on the
tax return, annual report, or audited financial statements, such as taxable income or cash used in
determining net current assets. If the petitioner submits all monthly statements since the priority date,
the petitioner must establish that the amounts reported on the bank statements have not already been
considered elsewhere, such as in a calculation of the petitioner ’s net current assets, and must
establish that such amounts reported on the bank statements reflect suf ficient cash to establish ability
to pay under the totality of the circumstances.
In the limited cases where USCIS may consider the personal assets and liabilities of an owner of the
petitioner (for example, petitions filed by sole proprietors, general partners, or other natural persons),
bank account statements may be probative of the petitioner ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage.
Personnel Records8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1105/2618