DHS, at its discretion, may conduct a site visit of any STEM OPT  employer to ensure that the
employer possesses and maintains the ability , personnel, and resources to provide structured and
guided work-based learning experiences consistent with the information provided on Form I-983.[45]
During a site visit, DHS may verify that the employer that signed the Form I-983 is the same entity that
is providing the practical training experience to the F-1 student and ensure compliance.
For DHS to ef fectively conduct these site visits as part of its oversight responsibilities, it is important
that employers report any change in an F-1 student’ s employment address. As indicated above and
further explained below ,[46] the employer and F-1 student must report such a material change by
submitting a modified Form I-983 to the DSO at the earliest available opportunity .
Staffing and temporary agencies and consulting firms may employ F-1 students under the STEM OPT
program if they will be the entity that provides the practical training experience to the F-1 student and
have and maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the F-1 student.
F-1 students may engage in a training experience that takes place at a site other than the employer ’s
principal place of business as long as all of the training obligations are met, including that the
employer has and maintains a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the student.
Certain types of arrangements, including multiple employer arrangements, sole proprietorships,
employment through temp agencies, employment through consulting firm arrangements that provide
labor for hire, and other similar relationships may not be able to demonstrate a bona fide employer-
employee relationship and, therefore, may not meet the requirements of the STEM OPT  extension.
F-1 students seeking STEM OPT  extensions may be employed by new start-up businesses so long as
all regulatory requirements are met, including that the employer adheres to the training plan
requirements, remains in good standing with E-V erify, will provide compensation to the STEM OPT
student commensurate to that provided to similarly situated U.S. workers, and has the resources to
comply with the proposed training plan.[47] For instance, alternative compensation may be allowed
during a STEM OPT  extension as long as the F-1 student can show that they are a bona fide
employee and that their compensation, including any ownership interest in the employer entity (such
as stock options), is commensurate with the compensation provided to other similarly situated U.S.
workers.[48]
As part of the STEM OPT  extension, employers must complete the appropriate parts of Form I-983 . In
this form, employers attest that:
They have enough resources and trained personnel available to appropriately train the F-1
student;
The F-1 student will not replace a full or part-time, temporary , or permanent U.S. worker; and
Working for them will help the F-1 student attain their training objectives.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 401/2618