preference petitions, second preference national interest waivers, and Schedule A, Group I
occupations), the priority date is the same as the filing date of the petition. See 8 CFR 204.5(d) .
Chapter 5 - Reserved
Chapter 6 - Permanent Labor Certification
A. Employer Requirements
A significant percentage of Immigrant Petitions for Alien W orkers ( Forms I-140 ) are based on
permanent labor certification applications approved by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL). When
adjudicating a permanent labor certification application, DOL  does not generally review the
beneficiary’ s qualifications for the position; this authority and responsibility rests with USCIS.
Therefore, of ficers must assess these petitions to ensure that the position of fered is the same or
similar to the position that the DOL  certified and that the beneficiary meets the qualifications for the
position.
1. Applicability
Employment-based 1st preference (EB-1)[1] beneficiaries are not required to be the beneficiaries of
approved permanent labor certifications issued by the DOL. Beneficiaries seeking employment-based
2nd preference (EB-2)[2] or 3rd preference (EB-3)[3] immigrant visas, however , generally must be the
beneficiaries of approved permanent labor certifications.
2. Individual Permanent Labor Certifications
In general, petitioners filing EB-2 and EB-3 petitions must first obtain an approved permanent labor
certification application from DOL  on behalf of the beneficiary . An approved permanent labor
certification application demonstrates that:
The petitioner tested the labor market in the geographic area where the permanent job of fer is
located to establish that there are no able, qualified, and available U.S. workers who are willing
to accept the permanent job of fer; and
The employment of the beneficiary will not adversely af fect the wages and working conditions of
similarly employed U.S. workers.
Transition to the PERM Labor Certification System
DOL implemented the permanent labor certification system (PERM) on March 28, 2005, ef fectively
eliminating the previous permanent labor certification system, whereby petitioners had an option to file8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1115/2618