If there are inconsistencies in the record, the of ficer should request more information[22] to resolve any
inconsistencies and give appropriate weight to the evidence in question. The of ficer must determine
whether:
The court or local authority was aware of any potentially derogatory information;[23]
Gaps or inconsistencies in the record are material; and 
The inconsistencies are overcome by other evidence in the record indicating the child appears to
meet requirements as a Convention adoptee. 
Inconsistencies in the Record
If the inconsistencies or omissions are… Then they…
Minor and not material to the determination of
eligibilityGenerally do not support a denial or make an
otherwise approvable petition not clearly
approvable.
Not minor (such as multiple inconsistences or
omissions) and are material to the determination of
eligibilityMay lead to a denial or a not clearly
approvable[24] finding.
If additional investigative steps do not reasonably explain a material inconsistency or omission or no
plausible explanation exists, then the of ficer should issue an RFE or a NOID, as appropriate.[25]
Officers should carefully weigh the evidence and may assign dif fering weight to evidence in the record,
depending on the reliability of that evidence.
An of ficer should consider all evidence regarding the circumstances of the child’ s eligibility , including
documents from the Central Authority in the child’ s country of origin. For example, an of ficer should
consider secondary evidence, such as police reports or administrative or lower court documents that
led to the foreign government's decision to terminate parental or custodial rights.
Although USCIS would generally not see a foreign adoption decree at the provisional approval stage,
USCIS generally accepts foreign decrees or orders on their face as primary evidence of a
determination by a foreign court. Absent specific material information that a court decree is legally
invalid[26] or was obtained by fraud, an of ficer may generally rely on such authentic decrees as
evidence of a determination by a foreign government. An of ficer may , however , question the validity of
a decree or order for various reasons, such as:
Lack of jurisdiction by the foreign court authority; 
Lack of parental or custodial consent to the adoption or legal custody decree; 
No or improper notice of termination of parental or custodial rights; 
Evidence of corruption, fraud, or material misrepresentation; 
Lack of due process or appropriate safeguards in the country or jurisdiction issuing the order; or 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1006/2618