Officers must carefully review each petition for an H-3 trainee to ensure compliance with the intent of
the H-3 category to train those who will return to their home countries. Unless specifically provided
otherwise, of ficers should apply a “preponderance of the evidence” standard when evaluating eligibility
for the benefit sought.[1] The burden of proving eligibility for the benefit sought rests entirely with
the petitioner .[2] 
B. Factors to Consider
1. Career Abroad
The description of the training program should include a specific explanation of the position and duties
for which the training will prepare the trainee.[3] The trainee must demonstrate that the proposed
training will prepare the beneficiary for an existing career outside the United States.
Trainings can be to prepare the trainee for something that is new and unavailable anywhere in the
trainee’ s country . For instance, a trainee may already be a professional in his or her own right and
possess knowledge in the field of proposed training, but will be using the training to further his or her
skills or career through company-specific training that a corporate organization makes available in the
United States. This could include cases of mid-level and senior-level employees who possess
knowledge in their field, but seek to further develop their skills in the proposed field of training.[4] As
always, the totality of the evidence is evaluated for each case and all other requirements must be met.
[5]
Example: A U.S. company develops a new product for which training is unavailable in another country .
The U.S. company may petition to train people to use that product, which will enable the trainees to
train others to use the new product in their home country .
2. Instruction
Classroom-based Instruction
In cases where the program is entirely classroom-based, of ficers should review the evidence to
ensure that the petitioner establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that the training cannot be
made available in the beneficiary’ s home country .[6]
If a petitioner claims that the classroom training portion of their proposed training programs will take
place online, the petition must provide an explanation as to why the training cannot take place in
the beneficiary’ s own country . Officers should also investigate whether the online training would be
provided by an academic or vocational institution.[7]
Online Instruction8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 456/2618