The bond must meet all of the requirements applicable to the initial bond; and
The bond must cover all liabilities that the initial obligor incurred, including any breach of the
bond conditions, before USCIS accepts the substitute bond. The reason for this requirement is
that USCIS may not learn of a breach until after the expiration or cancellation of the bond
previously submitted to USCIS. Form I-945  includes this requirement as a term of the condition.
When USCIS is verifying the suf ficiency of the substitute public charge bond, USCIS must
ensure that no text on the Form I-945 has been altered before USCIS accepts the form by
having it signed by the designated USCIS authority .
In addition, USCIS follows the steps outlined in this part,[3] addressing the acceptance of a public
charge bond when reviewing the substitute public charge bond for suf ficiency .
If USCIS determines that the substitute bond is suf ficient, the of ficer should forward the public charge
bond for acceptance by the designated USCIS authority for signature. The substitute bond is ef fective
on the day it is signed by the designated USCIS authority . The of ficer should proceed with issuing the
receipt as outlined in this part.[4]
As part of the acceptance of the new public charge bond, USCIS cancels the bond being substituted,
releases any prior obligors from liability , and accepts the substitute bond. A copy of the communication
must be sent to all parties involved. If the bond that is returned to the obligor was a cash bond, USCIS
must return the original bond amount and any interest accrued to the obligor of the bond being
substituted.
If the substitute bond submitted is insuf ficient, USCIS generally notifies the obligor of the substitute
bond so that the obligor may correct the deficiency or deficiencies within the timeframe stipulated in
USCIS’  notice. This notice should not only be sent to the new obligor , but all parties involved, including
the obligor and agent or co-obligor , if any , on file (the bond to be substituted), the agent or co-obligor
of the substitute bond, the alien, and any representative of any of the parties involved. If the deficiency
is not corrected within the timeframe specified, the bond currently on file remains in ef fect.
C. Breach of Bond
A condition of the bond is that the alien not receive public benefits[5] in the form of either public cash
assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense after the
alien has adjusted their status to that of a LPR and until USCIS cancels the bond.[6] A bond may be
breached for non-compliance of any condition imposed on the public charge bond.[7]
1. Investigation
USCIS may learn of a potential bond breach from various sources. For example, USCIS may learn of
a potential bond breach from the alien requesting that the public charge bond be canceled, when8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2043/2618