Acceptable data sources for calculating unemployment included U.S. Census Bureau data (including
data from the American Community Survey) and data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (including
data from Local Area Unemployment Statistics).
There has never been a provision allowing a state to designate a rural area.
6. Infrastructure Projects
For regional center-based petitions filed on or after May 14, 2022, investors may qualify for the
reduced investment amount by investing in an infrastructure project. These projects are ones:
That are administered by a governmental entity (such as a federal, state, or local agency or
authority);
Where the governmental entity , which serves as the job-creating entity , contracts with a regional
center or new commercial enterprise to receive capital investment under the regional center
program from investors or the new commercial enterprise; and
That involve financing for maintaining, improving, or constructing a public works project.[80]
USCIS determines whether a project meets the definition of infrastructure project during adjudication
of the Form I-956F .[81] A standalone investor cannot establish eligibility through an infrastructure
project.
B. Comprehensive Business Plan
For standalone investor petitions filed at any time and regional center investor petitions filed before
March 15, 2022, a comprehensive business plan should contain, at a minimum, a description of the
business, its products or services (or both), and its objectives.[82]
The plan should contain a market analysis, including the names of competing businesses and their
relative strengths and weaknesses, a comparison of the competition’ s products and pricing structures,
and a description of the target market and prospective customers of the new commercial enterprise.
The plan should list the required permits and licenses obtained. If applicable, it should describe the
manufacturing or production process, the materials required, and the supply sources.
The plan should detail any contracts executed for the supply of materials or the distribution of
products. It should discuss the marketing strategy of the business, including pricing, advertising, and
servicing. The plan should set forth the business’ s organizational structure and its personnel’ s
experience. It should explain the business’ s staf fing requirements and contain a timetable for hiring, as
well as job descriptions for all positions. It should contain sales, costs, and income projections and
detail the basis of such projections.
Most importantly , the business plan must be credible.[83]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1256/2618