USCIS considers an applicant’ s age in the totality of the alien’ s circumstances, as part of a
prospective determination.[4] Furthermore, USCIS considers age in combination with the other factors,
and examines the applicant’ s age in relation to its possible impact on the other factors (for example,
health or assets, resources, and financial status).
B. Health
USCIS must consider an alien’ s health in a public charge inadmissibility determination.[5]
1. Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record
In considering an alien’ s health in a public charge inadmissibility determination, USCIS generally
defers to the medical information provided by a civil surgeon on the Report of Immigration Medical
Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ) or by a panel physician on the following
Department of State forms: Medical Examination for Immigrant or Refugee Applicant (1991 TB
Technical Instructions) (Form DS-2053), the Medical Examination for Immigrant or Refugee Applicant
(2007 TB Technical Instructions) (Form DS-2054), or the Electronic Medical Examination for V isa
Applicant (DS-7794), and related worksheets.[6] Officers should not make health diagnoses.
Such information includes diagnoses of any Class A[7] or Class B medical conditions diagnosed by the
civil surgeon or panel physician. Class A conditions are medical conditions listed in INA 212(a)(1)(A)
that render a person inadmissible and ineligible for a visa or adjustment of status.
Class B medical conditions include any “physical or mental abnormality , disease, or disability serious
in degree or permanent in nature amounting to a substantial departure from normal well-being,” in
which case the civil surgeon or panel physician must also document “the nature and extent of the
abnormality; the degree to which the alien is incapable of normal physical activity; and the extent to
which the condition is remediable . . . [as well as] the likelihood, that because of the condition, the
applicant will require extensive medical care or institutionalization.”[8]
USCIS may request additional information regarding an applicant’ s health if the information provided
in the report of medical examination is incomplete.[9]
2. Relationship Between Health and Disability
INA 212(a)(4)(B)(i)  requires USCIS to consider an alien’ s health when making a public charge
inadmissibility determination, which may include consideration of any disabilities, as defined by
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, identified in the report of medical examination.[10] However ,
USCIS will not find an applicant inadmissible on the public charge ground solely based on an
applicant’ s disability .
As noted previously , no one factor (other than the lack of a suf ficient Affidavit of Support Under Section
213A  of the INA  when required) will lead to a public charge inadmissibility finding. Disability alone is8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1989/2618