another valid nonimmigrant status. Mexican citizens residing outside the United States must apply for
a TN visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate.[3]
B. Evidence
1. Business Activity Requirements
The applicant for TN nonimmigrant classification must demonstrate that he or she will engage in
business activities in the United States at a professional level in a profession listed in NAFT A/USMCA.
The alien must provide documentation describing the professional activities that he or she will perform
for the U.S. employer or entity , including a summary of the daily job duties, if appropriate.[4]
2. Degree Requirements
If a profession requires a baccalaureate or licenciatura degree, experience cannot be substituted for
that degree. In some professions, an alternative to a bachelor's degree is listed. For some
professions, experience is required in addition to the degree.[5]
Degrees, diplomas, or certificates received by the alien from an educational institution outside of the
United States, Canada, or Mexico must be accompanied by an evaluation by a reliable credentials
evaluation service that specializes in evaluating foreign educational credentials.[6]
Experiential evidence should be in the form of letters from former employers. If the alien was formerly
self-employed, business records attesting to that self-employment must be submitted.
3. Professional License Requirements
The alien must meet applicable license requirements to practice a licensed profession in the U.S. state
in which the alien intends to practice.[7]
In certain circumstances, although a profession may generally require licensing, there may be duties
within the occupation that do not require licensing. A state may require a profession to be licensed for
certain activities but not for all activities engaged in by the profession.
For example, a dentist must possess a license in the United States to practice dentistry , but if a
Canadian or Mexican citizen is coming to the United States as a TN nonimmigrant to give a seminar
on dentistry , a U.S. license is not necessary . A Canadian TN applicant may establish qualifications as
a dentist by showing a Canadian provincial license such as a Doctor of Dental Surgery D.D.S. or a
Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry D.M.D.[8]
Similarly , a Mexican dentist coming to give a seminar on dentistry might show a professional license in
dentistry from the Federal Secretary of Education’ s General Directorship of Professions such as a
Doctor en Odontologia Degree or a Doctor en Cirugia Dental Degree.[9]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 629/2618