Date Event
February 1, 2009 The alien is admitted as an H-1B nonimmigrant for three years. 
January 31, 2012The H-1B’ s nonimmigrant authorized stay expires, as indicated on the
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94).
May 1, 2012An employment-based petition and adjustment application are
concurrently filed for the alien.
July 15, 2012Both the petition and the application are approved and the alien is
adjusted to a permanent resident.
In this example, the alien’ s initial period of admission as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor expired more than
three months prior to the initial departure. During the subsequent admission, the alien filed for
adjustment three months after H-1B status terminated. 
The time spent out of status during the alien’ s first admission as a B-2 nonimmigrant was not
calculated because the time spent out of status or in violation of status prior to the nonimmigrant’ s last
admission is not considered for INA 245(k)  purposes. Since the alien is an employment-based
adjustment applicant and his three-month violation following his last lawful admission did not exceed
180 days, the applicant is exempted from the INA 245(c)(2)  bar. 
5. Evidence to Consider
An applicant seeking the INA 245(k)  exemption must properly file an adjustment application as
specified in the form instructions, but he or she is not required to submit any additional forms
or fees. If an of ficer determines that an INA 245(c)(2) , INA 245(c)(7) , or INA 245(c)(8)  bar applies in a
particular case, the of ficer should use the following evidence submitted in support of the adjustment
application to analyze the applicant’ s eligibility for the exemption: 
Copies of all Arrival/Departure Records (Forms I-94) showing authorized admission into the
United States;
 Copies of the biographic pages of any passports containing nonimmigrant visas along with the
passport pages containing the visas; 
 Copies of any passport pages showing recorded travel into or out of the United States, such
as admission stamps;
 Copies of any documentation showing all places of residence dating back at least five years from
the date of filing for adjustment and showing all periods of employment; and
Receipt or Approval Notices (Forms I-797) for any immigration benefit, including nonimmigrant
status, changes of nonimmigrant status or extensions of stay , and employment authorization. 
If the evidence of record is insuf ficient to determine the applicant’ s eligibility for the
exemption, an of ficer should first attempt to obtain any missing information using authorized USCIS-
approved databases. An of ficer also may issue a Request for Evidence or Notice of Intent to Deny .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1599/2618