of exceptional ability;
Evidence in the form of letter(s) from current or former employer(s) showing that the beneficiary
has at least 10 years of full-time experience in the occupation in which he or she is being sought;
A license to practice the profession or certification for a particular profession or occupation;
Evidence that the beneficiary has commanded a salary or other remuneration for services that
demonstrates exceptional ability . (To satisfy this criterion, the evidence must show that the
beneficiary has commanded a salary or remuneration for services that is indicative of his or her
claimed exceptional ability relative to others working in the field);
Evidence of membership in professional associations; and
Evidence of recognition for achievements and significant contributions to the industry or field by
peers, governmental entities, or professional or business organizations.[18]
In some cases, evidence relevant to one criterion may be relevant to other criteria.
Additionally , if these types of evidence do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the
petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility .[19] This provides
petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility if the
regulatory standards[20] do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation. When evaluating such
comparable evidence, of ficers consider whether the criteria are readily applicable to the beneficiary's
occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria listed in the
regulation.
General assertions that any of the six objective criteria do not readily apply to the beneficiary's
occupation are not acceptable. Similarly , claims that USCIS should accept witness letters as
comparable evidence are not persuasive. The petitioner should explain why the evidence it has
submitted is comparable.[21]
Objectively meeting the regulatory criteria alone does not establish that the beneficiary in fact meets
the requirements for exceptional ability classification.[22] For example, being a member of professional
associations alone, regardless of the caliber , should satisfy one of the three required regulatory
criteria. However , the beneficiary's membership should also be evaluated to determine whether it is
indicative of the beneficiary having a degree of expertise significantly above that ordinarily
encountered in the sciences, arts, or business. However , this secondary evaluation should be
conducted as part of the final merits determination.
Final Merits Determination
Meeting the minimum requirement by providing at least three types of initial evidence does not, in
itself, establish that the beneficiary in fact meets the requirements for exceptional ability classification.
[23] Officers must also consider the quality of the evidence. In the second part of the analysis, of ficers
should evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety for the final merits
determination. The of ficer must determine whether or not the petitioner , by a preponderance of the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1197/2618