new citizens. The naturalization ceremony is the culmination of the naturalization process. USCIS
aims to make administrative naturalization ceremonies positive and memorable moments in the lives
of the participants. USCIS honors the Oath of Allegiance with policies and practices that reflect the
importance of the occasion.
The following information provides USCIS of ficials with guidance for conducting administrative
naturalization ceremonies in a meaningful and consistent manner .[1]
A. Materials Distributed
USCIS may distribute materials at administrative naturalization ceremonies, including:
U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet (including the President’ s Congratulatory Letter);
American flag;
Citizen’ s Almanac ( Form M-76 ); and
Pocket-size Declaration of Independence and Constitution of the United States.
1. Contents of U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet
USCIS distributes the U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet (Form M-771) to every naturalization
candidate participating in an administrative ceremony in the United States.[2]
The U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet consists of the following:
President’ s, Secretary’ s, or Director of USCIS’  Congratulatory Letter and Envelope;
Application for U.S. Passport (Form DS-1 1 (PDF));
Important Information for New Citizens (Form M-767);
Oath of Allegiance/The Star Spangled Banner/Pledge of Allegiance Flier (Form M-789);
Certificate Holder; and
A Voter’s Guide to Federal Elections.
The of ficial congratulatory letters from the President of the United States, Secretary of Homeland
Security , or Director of USCIS are the only congratulatory letters USCIS distributes at naturalization
ceremonies. Guests, elected of ficials, other U.S. government entities, and nongovernmental
organizations may not provide candidates with congratulatory letters within the venue.
2. Distribution of U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet
USCIS may distribute the U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet during the check-in process before the
naturalization candidate has been administered the Oath of Allegiance but only after a USCIS of ficer
has determined that the applicant is eligible to take the Oath of Allegiance on the day of the ceremony .
[3]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2580/2618