Only DOS has the authority to revoke a U.S. passport or cancel a CRBA.[59] DOS may revoke a U.S.
passport or cancel a CRBA  in cases where the passport or CRBA  was obtained or issued illegally ,
fraudulently , or erroneously .[60]
USCIS provides the following information to DOS in the passport revocation or CRBA  cancellation
request:
The applicant’ s complete biographic information, including name and any known aliases;
The applicant’ s last known address;
All previous unexpired U.S. passport numbers and alien registration numbers (A-numbers);
A copy of the CRBA  or of the biographical page of the U.S. passport submitted as evidence (if
available);
An explanation for requesting revocation or cancellation, including reasons for the request,
analysis of the facts and dates used in determining that the passport or CRBA  should be revoked
or cancelled, and evaluation of evidence indicating that the applicant did not acquire U.S.
citizenship;
Copies of all documentary evidence in support of the request, including certified translations of
any documents written or originally prepared in a foreign language; and
The contact information of the USCIS of fice making the request.
Adjudication of Application with a U.S. Passport Revocation or Cancellation Request
After reviewing the case on the merits and requesting a revocation of a U.S. passport or a cancellation
of a CRBA  from DOS, the of ficer generally may not complete the adjudication of the Application for
Certificate of Citizenship until DOS responds.
If DOS notifies USCIS that it does not intend to revoke the passport or cancel the CRBA, USCIS
approves the Application for Certificate of Citizenship.[61] However , in cases with unusual or complex
circumstances, USCIS may further consult with DOS.
If USCIS has evidence indicating that a U.S. passport submitted as evidence was obtained or issued
illegally , fraudulently , or erroneously , and the passport was valid at the time of filing, but is expired at
the time of adjudication, the of ficer should review the case with USCIS counsel and DOS before
adjudicating.[62]
If DOS revokes the U.S. passport or cancels the CRBA, the of ficer denies the application in cases
where the applicant does not otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for issuance of a Certificate of
Citizenship.
E. Citizenship Interview and W aiver
In general, an applicant must appear in person for an interview before a USCIS of ficer after filing an
Application for Certificate of Citizenship. This includes the U.S. citizen parent or legal guardian if the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2481/2618