status or seek an immigrant visa when a visa is available.[22] If a self-petitioner seeks an immigrant
visa from outside the United States, USCIS forwards the self-petition to the National V isa Center .[23]
Note that an approved self-petition does not confer immigration status to self-petitioners and their
derivative beneficiaries. An approved self-petition provides immigrant classification so that the self-
petitioner and any derivative beneficiaries have a basis upon which they may be eligible to apply for
lawful permanent resident status.
Employment Authorization
Approved self-petitioners and their derivative beneficiaries are eligible for employment authorization.
[24] USCIS may issue an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) to principal self-petitioners upon
approval if they requested an EAD on Form I-360.[25]
Derivative beneficiaries may apply for an EAD by submitting an Application for Employment
Authorization ( Form I-765 ) and supporting documentation of the principal’ s approved self-petition and
of the qualifying derivative relationship. Persons eligible for employment authorization based on an
approved self-petition receive an EAD with a (c)(31) employment authorization code.
Approved principal self-petitioners and derivative beneficiaries must file Form I-765 when renewing
their V AWA-based employment authorization.[26] Principal self-petitioners and derivatives who are
living outside of the United States are not eligible to receive an EAD.
Deferred Action
Approved self-petitioners and their derivative beneficiaries may be considered for deferred action on a
case-by-case basis.[27] Derivative beneficiaries requesting deferred action must include a copy of the
self-petitioner ’s approval notice and evidence of the qualifying derivative relationship with the request.
3. Denials
If USCIS finds that the facts and information provided with the Form I-360 do not demonstrate
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence, then USCIS denies the self-petition. USCIS notifies the
self-petitioner of the denial in writing and provides the reason(s) for the denial and the right to appeal
the decision.[28] A denial of a self-petition does not prevent the self-petitioner from filing another self-
petition.
D. Special Considerations for Self-Petitions Filed Subsequent to Family-Based
Immigrant Petition and Adjustment Application
Self-petitioners may have previously been the beneficiary of a Petition for Alien Relative ( Form I-130 )
and filed an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ) before filing
the self-petition. If the Form I-485 is pending, self-petitioners may notify USCIS either verbally in8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 809/2618