instructions on how to register to attend. Many events also have call-in numbers for those unable to
attend in person. The website also contains notes and supporting documents from previous
engagements.
B. Online
1. USCIS Online Account
USCIS online accounts  allow applicants, petitioners, and representatives to access personalized, real-
time information related to their individual case 24 hours a day through any internet-connected device.
Persons can also communicate directly with the USCIS Contact Center through the secure messaging
function to receive email responses to their case-specific inquiries. This is the easiest and most
comprehensive way to communicate with USCIS regarding case-specific issues.
Benefit requestors can send messages and inquiries directly to the USCIS Contact Center , using the
online webform when they need assistance with their online account, such as resetting their password
or Online Access Code.[3] USCIS generally responds to these messages and inquiries by email or
phone within 48 hours. Since these messages are outside of USCIS’  secure online account
experience, Contact Center staf f are limited from sharing case-specific information to ensure the
privacy of benefit requestors. The USCIS online account is the preferred method of contacting the
agency for timely and ef fective responses to case-specific inquiries.
2. Emma and Live W eb Chat
Emma  is the USCIS V irtual Assistant. Emma can provide immediate responses to non-case-specific
questions about immigration services and benefits, guide users through our comprehensive website,
and connect benefit requestors and other interested parties to a live agent through web chat for more
in-depth topics and questions.
3. Email
USCIS of fices may provide designated email boxes for case-specific inquiries about a pending or
adjudicated petition or application. Before submitting an inquiry , the person inquiring should review all
available information listed on the Contact Us  web page to ensure that the inquiry is properly routed. 
USCIS of ficers should use caution when responding to email inquiries requesting case-specific
information, as issues of privacy and identity may arise.[4]
C. Telephone
1. USCIS Contact Center
For the convenience of benefit requestors and other interested parties located within the United
States, the USCIS Contact Center provides a toll-free phone number: 1-800-375-5283 (TTY : 1-800-8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 159/2618