Immediate family members residing in the United States who are U.S. citizens, LPRs, or are
seeking citizenship or LPR status.
USCIS also reviews whether the applicant maintains connections outside the United States including:
Immediate family members residing outside of the United States;
Property and business ties in a foreign country;
Employment by a foreign employer or foreign government;
Voting in foreign elections;
Running for political of fice in a foreign country; and
Frequent and extended trips outside of the United States.
An applicant who voluntarily claims "nonresident alien" status to qualify for special exemptions from
income tax liability , or fails to file either federal or state income tax returns because he or she
considers himself or herself to be a "nonresident alien," raises a rebuttable presumption that the
applicant has abandoned his or her LPR status.[51] The applicant may overcome that presumption
with acceptable evidence establishing that he or she did not abandon LPR status.
To establish a continued intent to maintain permanent residence, an applicant may provide evidence
of the following:
Family ties, including children attending school and a spouse or other relatives residing lawfully
in the United States;
Real and personal property holdings or rentals in the United States; and
Current or recent employment or education in the United States.
To assess maintenance of LPR status, USCIS reviews the information provided as part of the
naturalization application and other available documentation. If needed, USCIS may issue a Request
for Evidence (RFE) for residences, travel, and employment information, and other relevant evidence
since the time of the adjustment of status. Failure to timely respond to an RFE will result in a denial of
the naturalization application for failure to meet the burden of proof.
2. Preserving Residence
Certain applicants[52] may seek to preserve their residence for naturalization if they leave the United
States for 1 year or more to engage in qualifying employment outside the United States.[53]
Preservation of residence may permit an applicant to avoid breaking the continuity of his or her
residence for purposes of the continuous residence requirement and, in some cases, the physical
presence requirement. However , approval of an application to preserve residence does not guarantee
that the applicant (or any family members) will not be found, upon returning to the United States, to
have lost LPR status through abandonment. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2306/2618