Copy of the applicant’ s Permanent Resident Card or Alien Registration Receipt Card or other
evidence of lawful permanent resident status, such as an Alien Documentation, Identification and
Telecommunication stamp in a valid foreign passport or travel document issued by USCIS;
Copy of the full, final adoption decree, if adopted.[55] If the child did not have a foreign adoption
that is considered full, final, and complete, the applicant must submit evidence of the final
adoption decree or order , or, if the U.S. jurisdiction of the adoptive parent or parents’  residence
recognizes the foreign adoption decree or order as full and final, evidence establishing this under
state law[56] together with the foreign adoption order;[57] and 
Evidence of all legal name changes, if applicable, for the applicant and U.S. citizen parent.[58]
An applicant does not need to submit documents that were submitted in connection with applicant’ s
prior applications, petitions or requests, such as:
An immigrant visa application retained by a U.S. consulate for inclusion in the immigrant visa
package; or 
An immigrant petition or application included in a USCIS administrative file.
If necessary , an of ficer may request additional documentation to make a decision on the application.
J. Citizenship Interview and W aiver
In general, an applicant must appear in person for an interview before a USCIS of ficer after filing Form
N-600 . USCIS, however , may waive the interview requirement if USCIS administrative records already
include all the required documentation necessary to establish the applicant’ s eligibility or if the
applicant submits the required documentation along with the application.[59]
K. Decision and Oath of Allegiance
1. Approval of Application and Oath of Allegiance
Once the applicant has met all the requirements for citizenship, USCIS approves the Form N-600 .
USCIS determines the date of citizenship based on when the applicant met the last requirement.
USCIS issues proof of U.S. citizenship in the form of a Certificate of Citizenship if USCIS approves
the Form N-600  and the person takes the Oath of Allegiance, if required to do so.[60]
USCIS does not mail Certificates of Citizenship outside the United States except when USCIS issues
a Certificate of Citizenship to a military member .
If an applicant does not take the Oath of Allegiance and is not eligible for a waiver , USCIS cannot
issue a Certificate of Citizenship.[61]
2. Denial of Application8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2523/2618