For example, an entrepreneur cannot demonstrate national importance under the first prong solely by
opening a consulting firm for those working or seeking to work in a nationally important occupation.
Similarly , statements and evidence regarding the importance of the relevant industry overall, such as
the car dealership industry , will not demonstrate that a person seeking to start a car dealership
satisfies the national importance prong.
As an example related to the second prong, evidence that a person has general work experience in a
given field may not be suf ficient to demonstrate that such person is well positioned to start a
consulting business providing expertise in that field. For instance, if a person’ s experience in banking
is limited to working as a teller or accounts manager , USCIS may determine that the person has not
established they are well positioned to advance an entrepreneurial endeavor to establish a consulting
business that will advise U.S. banks nationally on how to improve customer relations.
Strong petitions would discuss how the person’ s record of success would translate to a proposed plan
or forecast for continued success, and steps they have taken toward those proposed activities, and
plans that tie into the person’ s background and expertise. A persuasive petition could delineate clear
details such as whether the person has met certain achievements toward the endeavor that may have
generated interest from potential customers, users, investors, or other relevant entities or individuals.
Beyond this, USCIS would also welcome probative evidence to support how the person has
anticipated relevant metrics such as market size and share, job creation, and revenue growth.
When evaluating whether petitions for entrepreneurs satisfy the three-pronged framework, of ficers
may consider the fact that many entrepreneurs do not follow traditional career paths and there is no
single way in which an entrepreneurial venture entity must be structured.
In addition to the more generally applicable evidence described above, an entrepreneur petitioner may
submit the types of evidence discussed under the italicized subheadings below to substantiate any
business plans and to establish that the endeavor has substantial merit and national importance, that
the petitioner is well positioned to advance the endeavor , and that, on balance, it would be beneficial
to waive the job of fer and thus labor certification requirements.
USCIS evaluates all of the evidence in the aggregate; not every piece of evidence necessarily
establishes eligibility .[101] For example, ownership of a company , while relevant to whether the person
is well positioned to advance the endeavor , rarely establishes eligibility on its own. USCIS reviews all
of the evidence submitted, including the person’ s education, experience, and skills when determining
eligibility .
Evidence of Ownership and Role in the U. S.-Based Entity
The petitioner may have an ownership interest in an entity based in the United States, of which the
petitioner may also be the founder or co-founder . The petitioner may also play an active and central
role in the operations of the entity as evidenced by the petitioner ’s appointment as an of ficer (or similar8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1212/2618