Evidence of assets which have been purchased for use in the U.S. enterprise, including invoices,
sales receipts, and purchase contracts containing suf ficient information to identify such assets,
their purchase costs, date of purchase, and purchasing entity;
Evidence of property transferred from abroad for use in the U.S. enterprise, including U.S.
Customs and Border Protection commercial entry documents, bills of lading, and transit
insurance policies containing ownership information and suf ficient information to identify the
property and to indicate the fair market value of such property;
Evidence of monies transferred or committed to be transferred to the new commercial enterprise
in exchange for shares of stock (voting or nonvoting, common or preferred). Such stock may not
include terms requiring the new commercial enterprise to redeem it at the holder ’s request; or
Evidence of any loan or mortgage agreement, promissory note, security agreement, or other
evidence of borrowing secured by the immigrant investor ’s assets, other than those of the new
commercial enterprise, and for which the immigrant investor is personally and primarily liable.
[100]
5. Engagement in Management of New Commercial Enterprise
The immigrant investor must be engaged in the management of the new commercial enterprise, either
through the exercise of day-to-day managerial responsibility or through policy formulation.[101]
To show that the immigrant investor is or will be engaged in the exercise of day-to-day managerial
control or policy formulation, the immigrant investor must submit:
A statement of the position title that the immigrant investor has or will have in the new enterprise
and a complete description of the position’ s duties;[102]
Evidence that the immigrant investor is a corporate of ficer or a member of the corporate board of
directors;[103] or
If the new enterprise is a partnership, either limited or general, evidence that the immigrant
investor is engaged in either direct management or policymaking activities. The immigrant
investor is suf ficiently engaged in the management of the new commercial enterprise if the
investor is a limited partner and the limited partnership agreement provides the investor with
certain rights, powers, and duties normally granted to limited partners under the Uniform Limited
Partnership Act.[104]
D. Creation of Jobs
The creation of jobs for U.S. workers is a critical element of the EB-5 category . It is not enough that
the immigrant investor invests funds into the U.S. economy . The investment of the required amount of
capital must be in a new commercial enterprise that creates[105] at least 10 jobs for qualifying
employees. It is important to recognize that while the investment must result in the creation of jobs for
qualifying employees, it is the new commercial enterprise that creates the jobs.[106]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1260/2618