Owns more than 50 percent (directly or indirectly) of the entity and controls the entity;
Owns 50 percent (directly or indirectly) of the entity and controls the entity;
Owns 50 percent (directly or indirectly) of the entity that is a 50-50 joint venture and has equal
control and veto power over the entity; or
Owns less than 50 percent (directly or indirectly) of the entity but in fact controls the entity .[8]
Therefore, ownership and control are two of the factors that of ficers must examine in determining
whether a qualifying L-1 relationship exists between the foreign employer and the U.S. employer .
Ownership means the legal right of possession with full power and authority to control. Control means
the right and authority to direct the management and operations of the business entity .[9]
3. Affiliate
An af filiate meets one of the following:
One of two or more subsidiaries, all of which are owned and controlled[10] by the same parent;
One of two or more legal entities owned and controlled by the same person;
One of two or more legal entities owned and controlled by the same group of persons, each
person owning and controlling approximately the same share or proportion of each entity;[11] or
In the case of a partnership organized to provide accounting or management consulting
services, an entity inside the United States is an af filiate of an entity outside the United States if:
The entities market their accounting or management consulting services (directly or
indirectly) using the same internationally recognized name, under an agreement with the
same worldwide coordinating organization; and
The worldwide coordinating organization is collectively owned and controlled by the
member accounting or management consulting entities or by their elected members (that
is, partners, shareholders, members, employees).
Once these entities meet this definition of af filiate, they continue to be af filiates even if they
subsequently enter a plan of association with a successor worldwide coordinating organization that is
not collectively owned and controlled by its member entities or their elected members.
4. Branch
Branch means an operating division or of fice of the same organization housed in a dif ferent location.
[12] Probative evidence that the U.S. employer is a branch of fice may include but is not limited to one
or more of the following:[13]
A state or territorial business license establishing that the foreign corporation is authorized to
engage in business activities in the United States;
Copies of the U.S. Income Tax Return of a Foreign Corporation (IRS Form 1 120-F);8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 493/2618