C. Definition of Conviction
1. Statutory Definition of Conviction for Immigration Purposes
Most of the criminal of fenses that preclude a finding of GMC require a conviction for the disqualifying
offense or arrest. A “conviction” for immigration purposes means a formal judgment of guilt entered by
the court. A conviction for immigration purposes also exists in cases where the adjudication of guilt is
withheld if the following conditions are met:
A judge or jury has found the person guilty or the person entered a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere[8] or has admitted suf ficient facts to warrant a finding of guilt; and
The judge has ordered some form of punishment, penalty , or imposed a restraint on the person’ s
liberty .[9]
It is not always clear if the outcome of the arrest resulted in a conviction. V arious states have
provisions for diminishing the ef fects of a conviction. In some states, adjudication may be deferred
upon a finding or confession of guilt. Some states have a pretrial diversion program whereby the case
is removed from the normal criminal proceedings. This way the person may enter into a counseling or
treatment program and potentially avoid criminal prosecution.
If the accused is directed to attend a pre-trial diversion or intervention program, where no admission or
finding of guilt is required, the order may not count as a conviction for immigration purposes.[10]
2. Juvenile Convictions
In general, a guilty verdict, ruling, or judgment in a juvenile court does not constitute a conviction for
immigration purposes.[11] A conviction for a person who is under 18 years of age and who was
charged as an adult constitutes a conviction for immigration purposes.
3. Court Martial Convictions
A general “court martial” is defined as a criminal proceeding under the governing laws of
the U.S. armed forces. A judgment of guilt by a court martial has the same force and ef fect as a
conviction by a criminal court.[12] However , disciplinary actions in lieu of a court martial are not
convictions for immigration purposes.
4. Deferrals of Adjudication
In cases where adjudication is deferred, the original finding or confession of guilt and imposition of
punishment is suf ficient to establish a conviction for immigration purposes because both conditions
establishing a conviction are met. If the court does not impose some form of punishment, then it is not8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2391/2618