A PAP’s or AMH’ s fingerprints are expired (and they already received their one-time, no fee
fingerprints refresh); or
An additional person needs to provide biometrics.
The of ficer must check the P AP’s and AMH’ s responses from the home study on the questions on
criminal history and history of abuse or violence as an of fender against the background checks.
USCIS may deny the suitability application if the P AP or AMH failed to disclose an arrest, conviction,
or history of substance, sexual abuse, child abuse, or domestic violence to the agency conducting the
home study and to USCIS.
B. USCIS Actions and Decisions
1. Communication
USCIS sends communication of its actions and decisions directly to the P AP for all case-related
matters.
If a Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative ( Form G-28 ) or Notice of
Entry of Appearance as Attorney in Matters Outside the Geographical Confines of the United States
(Form G-28I ) is completed by an attorney or by an accredited representative,[3] the of ficer also sends
a copy of USCIS decision notices to such authorized attorney or accredited representative.[4] A person
representing an organization such as non-profit or charitable organization must first be accredited by
the Board of Immigration Appeals. In general, adoption agencies do not qualify as Accredited
Representatives.
Information about the particulars of any case can only be given to the P AP, or to an attorney or
accredited representative with a Form G-28 or Form G-28I on file. The Privacy Act forbids disclosing
information about the case to anyone else unless the P AP has signed a written consent[5] to the
disclosure or such disclosure is not prohibited by law .[6]
2. Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny
The of ficer issues an RFE or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID), as appropriate, if any of the required
home study elements or other required evidence is missing or deficient.[7]
USCIS may issue an RFE if a P AP or AMH is on probation, parole, supervised release, or other similar
arrangement for any conviction, or if criminal charges are pending or adjudication is deferred.[8]
USCIS does not make a favorable suitability determination if there are pending criminal charges or
deferred decisions against the P AP or any AMH. If the person completes the period of probation,
parole, supervised release, or other arrangement, resolves the pending or deferred criminal
adjudication, and the P AP provides a favorable home study recommending that the person has been8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 938/2618