C. Juvenile Court Order
For purposes of SIJ classification, a juvenile court is defined as a U.S. court having jurisdiction under
state law to make judicial determinations on the dependency and/or custody and care of juveniles.[6]
This means the court must have the authority to make determinations about dependency and/or
custody and care of the petitioner as a juvenile under state law at the time the order was issued.[7]
Depending on the circumstances, such a determination generally would be expected to remain in
place until the juvenile reached the age of majority , or until the goal of a child welfare permanency
plan, such as adoption, or other protective relief ordered by the juvenile court has been reached.[8] 
The title and the type of court that may meet the definition of a juvenile court varies from state to state.
Examples of state courts that may meet this definition include: juvenile, family , dependency , orphans,
guardianship, probate, and youthful of fender courts.
Not all courts having jurisdiction over juveniles under state law may be acting as juvenile courts for the
purposes of SIJ classification. For example, a court of general jurisdiction that issues an order with
SIJ-related findings outside of any juvenile custody or dependency proceeding would generally not be
acting as a juvenile court for SIJ purposes. The burden is on the petitioner to establish that the court is
acting as a juvenile court at the time that the order is issued.[9]
To be eligible for SIJ classification, the petitioner must submit a juvenile court order(s) with the
following determinations, and the record must provide evidence that there is a reasonable factual
basis[10] for each of the determinations:
Dependency or Custody – Declares the petitioner dependent on the court, or legally commits or
places the petitioner under the custody of either a state agency or department, or a person or
entity appointed by a state or juvenile court;
Parental Reunification – Declares, under state law , that the petitioner cannot reunify with one or
both of the petitioner ’s parents due to abuse, neglect, abandonment, or a similar basis under
state law; and
Best Interests – Determines that it would not be in the petitioner ’s best interest to be returned to
the petitioner ’s, or the petitioner ’s parents’, country of nationality or last habitual residence. The
best interest determination may be made by the juvenile court or in administrative proceedings
authorized or recognized by the juvenile court.
1. Dependency or Custody
The petitioner must be the subject of a juvenile court order that declares the petitioner dependent on a
juvenile court, or legally commits to or places the petitioner under the custody of either an agency or
department of a state, or a person or entity appointed by a state or juvenile court.
Dependency[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1410/2618