not required to submit a specific form to request an oath waiver ,[13] and may instead provide a written
request and a written evaluation[14] by an authorized medical professional.[15] 
USCIS reserves the right to request documentation if there is a question upon examination about the
applicant’ s disability and ability to understand or communicate an understanding of the oath. If USCIS
approves the oath waiver , USCIS does not require the applicant to appear in a public ceremony .
USCIS accepts an oath waiver request at any point of the naturalization process, until the time of the
oath ceremony . Field of fices should work with the legal guardian, surrogate, or designated
representative before the initial examination to obtain all the necessary documentation.[16]
Oath W aiver for Children under 14 Years of Age
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) permits USCIS to waive the taking of the Oath of Allegiance
if USCIS determines the person is unable to understand its meaning.[17] USCIS has determined that
children under the age of 14 are generally unable to understand the meaning of the oath. Accordingly ,
USCIS waives the oath requirement for a child younger than 14 years of age, at the time of
naturalization. If USCIS waives the oath requirement, USCIS issues a Certificate of Citizenship after
the of ficer approves the application.[18]
2. Legal Guardian, Surrogate, or Designated Representative
When an applicant is unable to undergo any part of the naturalization examination because of
a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment, a legal guardian, surrogate, or an eligible
designated representative completes the naturalization process for the applicant. USCIS waives the
Oath of Allegiance and the legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative attests to the
applicant’ s eligibility for naturalization.  In addition to an oath waiver , this process may require
accommodations including of f-site examinations.
When an oath waiver is provided, a legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative signs on
behalf of an applicant who is unable to understand or communicate an understanding of the Oath of
Allegiance because of a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment.
The legal guardian, surrogate, or representative acts on behalf of an applicant with a disability at every
stage of the naturalization examination. The legal guardian, surrogate, or representative files the
application on behalf of the applicant and must have knowledge of the facts supporting the applicant’ s
eligibility for naturalization.
The guardian, surrogate, or representative addresses every requirement for naturalization and bears
the burden of establishing the applicant’ s eligibility for naturalization.
Persons eligible to act on behalf of the applicant include: 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2575/2618