In other words, if the alien parent obtained status through means other than marriage to the U.S.
citizen or LPR spouse, the child should be admitted or adjusted as an LPR without conditions, even if
the marriage between the U.S. citizen petitioner and alien parent is less than 2 years old.
Officers may encounter cases where a child was misclassified as a CPR. This generally occurs due to
the inspecting or adjudicating of ficer’s failure to realize that the child should not be subject to
conditions at INA  216. Of ficers who encounter a Form I-751  filed by a child who was misclassified as a
CPR should process the case according to local procedures for misclassified CPRs.[14]
Children Who May Be Included on Their Parent’ s Petition
A CPR child may be included on the parent’ s Form I-751  if the CPR child obtained CPR status on the
same day as the CPR parent, or within 90 days thereafter .[15]
Children Who Must File a Separate Petition
A CPR child who is unable to be included in the parent’ s Form I-751  must file a separate Form I-751.
Some examples of a CPR child needing to file a separate Form I-751 include but are not limited to:
The child obtained CPR status more than 90 days after the CPR parent;  
The child’ s CPR parent died before filing Form I-751; or 
Any other circumstances preventing the child from being included in the Form I-751 of the parent
or stepparent.[16]
CPR children who must file a separate Form I-751 may do so at any time, even before the 90-day
period preceding the second anniversary of obtaining CPR status, as long as the child is not subject to
a final order of removal.
B. Permanent Residents Not Classified as CPRs and Misclassified CPRs
1. Permanent Residents Not Classified as CPRs
The following permanent residents are not classified as CPRs and therefore are not subject to or
required to remove conditions on residence:
An alien spouse who obtains permanent residence through a marriage that is more than 2 years
old at the time of admission or adjustment;
An alien who obtains permanent residence on a basis other than marriage;[17] and
An alien who, regardless of whether the alien’ s marriage to the principal beneficiary is less than
2 years old, obtains permanent residence as an accompanying or following to join dependent of
an alien who obtains permanent residence under any provision of the INA, or any other law , that
allows dependents to accompany or follow to join a principal beneficiary . Examples include but
are not limited to:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1363/2618