Qualifying Employment Abroad
In order to count time abroad as continuous residence and physical presence in the United States for
purposes of naturalization under the “section 1059(e)” provision, the applicant must meet all of the
following requirements during such time abroad:
The applicant must be:
Employed by the Chief of Mission or the U.S. armed forces;
Under contract with the Chief of Mission or the U.S. armed forces; or
Employed by a firm or corporation under contract with the Chief of Mission or the U.S.
armed forces;
The applicant must be employed as:
An interpreter;
Translator; or
In a security-related position in an executive or managerial capacity; and
The applicant must have spent at least a portion of the time abroad working directly with the
Chief of Mission or the U.S. armed forces.
Security-Related Position Must be in an Executive or Managerial Capacity[11]
An applicant who was in a security-related position must have been in an executive or managerial
capacity under such employment to qualify for the section 1059(e) benefits. USCIS uses the same
definitions and general considerations that apply to other employment-based scenarios in the
immigration context when determining whether an applicant worked in an executive or managerial
capacity .
In general, an executive or managerial capacity requires a high level of authority and a broad range of
job responsibilities. Managers and executives plan, organize, direct, and control an organization’ s
major functions and work through other employees to achieve the organization’ s goals. The duties of
the security-related position must primarily be of an executive or managerial nature, and a majority of
the executive’ s or manager ’s time must be spent on duties relating to policy or operational
management. This does not preclude the executive or manager from regularly applying his or her
professional expertise to functions that are not executive or managerial in nature.
To be employed in an “executive capacity” means an assignment within an organization in which the
employee primarily:
Directs the management of the organization or a major component or function of the
organization;
Establishes the goals and policies of the organization, component, or function;
Exercises wide latitude in discretionary decision-making; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2345/2618