Applicants who submit a personal af fidavit attesting to physical presence must also submit
documentation in support of the af fidavit.[21] USCIS evaluates all documentation on a case-by-case
basis.[22]
D. Demonstrating Underlying Basis for Adjustment
Applicants for INA 245(i)  adjustment must be eligible for an immigrant visa under a family-based,
employment-based, special immigrant, or diversity visa immigrant category . The applicant may adjust
based on:
The qualifying immigrant visa petition used to establish grandfathering, if the petition is still valid;
The immigrant visa petition associated with the permanent labor certification application used to
establish grandfathering, if the petition is still valid;
A separate immigrant visa petition; or
Selection in the diversity visa program.
For instance, an applicant may be a grandfathered alien based on a permanent labor certification
application but ultimately adjust status through a petition filed on his or her behalf by his or her lawful
permanent resident (LPR) spouse.[23]
Eligibility requirements vary depending on the immigrant visa category under which an applicant seeks
to adjust. An of ficer should review the record for proof that the applicant is eligible for an immigrant
visa in the category that forms the basis for the applicant’ s adjustment. The Form I-485 instructions
and the other category-specific parts of this volume provide detailed information on documentation
and evidence applicants must submit with Form I-485, depending on their specific basis for
adjustment.
E. Proof of Family Relationship
Applicants seeking INA 245(i)  adjustment as a grandfathered derivative beneficiary[24] must show that
the required relationship to the grandfathered principal beneficiary existed at the time the qualifying
petition or application was properly filed. Grandfathered derivative beneficiaries do not, however , need
to show that the relationship continues to exist at the time they file the adjustment application.
Applicants seeking adjustment as an accompanying (or following-to-join) spouse or child of a
grandfathered beneficiary (who is the principal adjustment applicant) must show the spouse or child
relationship currently exists.[25] Such applicants must also demonstrate that the grandfathered
beneficiary is currently applying for , has already applied for , or was granted adjustment of status under
INA 245(i) and remains an LPR.
An applicant can generally prove the required relationship by submitting a marriage certificate (for
spouse) or birth certificate or adoption decree (for child).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1629/2618