If the applicant is a conditional permanent resident and is eligible to naturalize on the basis of military
service during hostilities[21] without being an LPR based on being in the United States during
enlistment or induction, the applicant is not required to file or have an approved Petition to Remove
Conditions on Residence ( Form I-751 ) before his or her Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 )
may be approved.
G. Department of Defense Military Accessions V ital to National Interest Program
The general guidance in this section is from information provided by the Department of Defense
(DOD) on its former Military Accessions V ital to National Interest (MA VNI) program. USCIS is providing
this general information in the Policy Manual to assist current and former service members and their
families.[22]
1. Military Accessions V ital to National Interest Program
In 2009, DOD authorized the MA VNI pilot program as a recruitment tool to enlist certain
nonimmigrants and other aliens who had skills that were considered vital to the national interest of the
United States.[23] The program applies to certain health care professionals and aliens who were fluent
in certain foreign languages.[24]
An alien entering active duty status or service in the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve may
apply for military naturalization after the alien’ s Request for Certification of Military or Naval Service
(Form N-426 ) has been properly authorized, completed, and signed by the appropriate person
authorized by DOD.[25] USCIS is unable to adjudicate a naturalization application for current service
members without a properly submitted Form N-426.
Calixto Settlement Agreement Applicants
On September 22, 2022, the U.S. Army entered into a settlement agreement to settle Calixto, et al., v .
U.S. Dep’t of the Army , et al.  (Calixto Agreement).[26] In the settlement agreement, the Army agreed to
certify Forms N-426  for certain Army enlistees, including some enlistees who never began a qualifying
period of service in the Army . By certifying the Form N-426, the Army is certifying that the enlistees
served honorably on active duty or in the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve during a designated
period of hostilities such that the enlistees could apply for military naturalization under INA 329. 
Certain applicants who enlisted in the U.S. Army , including the Selected Reserve of the Ready
Reserve Delayed Training Program (DTP) or Regular Army Delayed Entry Program (DEP), through
the MA VNI pilot program on or before September 30, 2017, may receive a certified Form N-426  under
the terms of the Calixto Agreement. Such applicants become eligible to apply for naturalization under
INA 329 as a result of the certified Form N-426, even before attending initial entry training.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2540/2618