Example
An applicant who is subject to a 5-year statutory period for naturalization is absent from the United
States for 8 months, returning on August 1, 2018. The applicant has been absent from the United
States for more than 6 months (180 days) but less than 1 year (365 days). As such, the applicant must
be able to rebut the presumption of a break in the continuity of residence in order to meet the
continuous residence requirement for naturalization.
If the applicant is unable to rebut the presumption, he or she must wait until at least 6 months from
reaching the 5-year anniversary of the newly established statutory period following the applicant’ s
return to the United States. In this example, the newly established statutory period began on August 1,
2018, when the applicant returned to the United States. Therefore, the earliest the applicant may re-
apply for naturalization is February 1, 2023, which is at least 6 months from the 5-year anniversary of
the pertinent statutory period.[18]
2. Absence of 1 Year or More
An absence from the United States for a continuous period of 1 year or more (365 days or more)
during the period for which continuous residence is required will automatically break the continuity of
residence. This applies whether the absence takes place before or after the applicant files the
naturalization application.[19]
Unless an applicant has an approved Application to Preserve Residence for Naturalization Purposes
(Form N-470 ), USCIS must deny a naturalization application for failure to meet the continuous
residence requirement if the applicant has been continuously absent for a period of 1 year or more
during the statutory period. Form N-470  preserves residence for LPRs engaged in qualifying
employment abroad with the U.S. government, private sector , or a religious organization.[20]
Eligibility After Break in Residence
An applicant applying for naturalization under INA 316, which requires 5 years of continuous
residence, must then wait at least 4 years and 1 day after returning to the United States (whenever
364 days or less of the absence remains within the statutory period), to have the requisite continuous
residence to apply for naturalization.[21] The statutory period preceding the filing of the application is
calculated from the date of filing.
Once 4 years and 1 day have elapsed from the date of the applicant’ s return to the United States, the
period of absence from the United States that occurred within the past 5 years is now less than 1 year .
Since the period of absence is still more than 6 months, an applicant for naturalization in these
circumstances must also overcome the presumption of a break in the continuity of residence.[22]
If the same applicant reapplies for naturalization at least 4 years and 6 months after reestablishing
residence in the United States, he or she would not be subject to the presumption of a break in8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2334/2618