For example, many children of diplomats attend school in their parents’  home country while the
parents are on diplomatic assignment. An absence for this purpose, even if it extended for a year
or longer , would not be considered a break in the applicant’ s continuous residence.
Readmission to the United States as an A or G nonimmigrant[5] at the end of an absence does
not break an applicant’ s continuous residence.
Departure of the applicant’ s diplomatic parent does not break the applicant’ s residence if the
applicant remains in the United States. However , if the applicant permanently departs with his or
her diplomat parent, continuous residence is broken.[6]
4. Parent with Full Diplomatic Immunity at T ime of the Applicant’ s Birth
Diplomats accredited to the United States and having full diplomatic immunity are listed on
the Department of State’ s Diplomatic List  (Blue List).[7] If either parent was listed on the Blue List
when the applicant was born, the applicant is eligible to apply for this benefit. Both parents do not
have to be listed for the applicant to be eligible.[8]
Not all diplomats or employees of certain designated international organizations admitted to the United
States as an A or G nonimmigrant have full diplomatic immunity and appear on the Blue List. For
example, the immunities that apply to a foreign consular of ficer are not the same as those that apply to
diplomats. In order to determine eligibility to register for permanent residence based on being born in
the United States in diplomatic status, the applicant must submit of ficial confirmation of the diplomatic
classification and occupational title of his or her parent at the time of birth. 
USCIS confirms with the Department of State whether the applicant’ s parent(s) was on the Blue List at
the time of the child’ s birth. If an applicant did not have a parent on the Blue List at the time of his or
her birth in the United States, then the applicant is a U.S. citizen because the applicant did not have
full diplomatic immunity and was therefore subject to U.S. jurisdiction at the time of birth.
5. Applicant Lost or W aived Diplomatic Immunity
Because an LPR cannot be immune to the laws of the United States, applicants who retain diplomatic
immunity at the time they apply to register permanent residence must submit with their application a
completed and signed Request for W aiver of Certain Rights, Privileges, Exemptions, and Immunities
(Form I-508 ).
However , if, at the time an applicant applies to register lawful permanent residence, the applicant has
lost diplomatic immunity as verified by USCIS through the Department of State, then the applicant
does not need to submit Form I-508 with the application.
E. Documentation and Evidence
An applicant should submit the following to establish eligibility for lawful permanent residence as a
person born in the United States to an accredited foreign diplomatic of ficer:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1841/2618