Surety Bonds
In a surety bond, no cash is exchanged as part of the bond contract when the bond is posted.[12] Only
if the bond is breached will the surety company be required to pay the promised amount of money to
the U.S. government. A surety company (or the obligor) must carry out its contracts and comply with
statutory requirements, including prompt payment of demands arising from an administratively final
determination that the bond had been breached.[13]
D. Canceling a Bond
In general, a public charge bond has to remain in place until the bond can be canceled and USCIS
determines that the bond has not been breached.
1. Request to Cancel
In general, until either the obligor or the alien has filed a request to cancel the bond and USCIS has
favorably adjudicated it, the bond remains in ef fect. USCIS may , however , at its own discretion, cancel
the public charge bond if USCIS determines that the alien otherwise meets the requirement for
cancellation.[14]
The request to cancel the public charge bond must be submitted on a Request for Cancellation of
Public Charge Bond ( Form I-356 ). The request must be completed and submitted in accordance with
the form’ s instructions and accompanied by the appropriate fee, if applicable.[15]
Because the form may be submitted either by the obligor or the alien, Form I-356 has several parts
that must be completed either by the obligor (the person who has posted the bond) or by the obligor ’s
authorized agent (co-obligor , for surety companies only) who posted the bond on behalf of the alien, or
by the alien. If the alien is deceased, the executor of the alien’ s estate may complete the alien’ s part
on behalf of the alien.
Therefore, it is possible that a cancellation request is submitted without the obligor or any agent or co-
obligor , or the alien (or the alien’ s executor) knowing about it. In the form instructions, USCIS
encourages completion of the entire form by all parties before it is submitted. However , it is possible
for a request to be submitted when only partially completed, particularly when one party has requested
cancellation of the bond without informing or including the other parties in the cancellation request.
Missing Information from the Alien
If the obligor (or the agent or co-obligor) submits the cancellation request but the request does not
contain the information from the alien required to cancel the bond, the of ficer should do the following:
Copy the request for cancellation of the public charge bond form for all parties involved;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2046/2618