issues. USCIS personnel are permitted to respond to these inquiries if:
The requestor is entitled to receive the requested case-specific information; and
Disclosure of the requested case-specific information would not violate Privacy Act requirements
or other special protected class confidentiality protections.
1. Verifying Identity of Requestor
USCIS employees must verify the identity of a person inquiring about a specific application or petition.
For in-person inquiries, those present must provide a government-issued identity document so that
USCIS can verify their identity .
For inquiries not received in person (for example, those received through telephone call or email), it
may be dif ficult to verify the identity of the person making the request through a government-issued
document. In these cases, USCIS employees should ask for specific identifying information about the
case to ensure that it is appropriate to communicate case-specific information. Examples of identifying
information include, but are not limited to: receipt numbers, A-numbers, full names, dates of birth,
email addresses, and physical addresses.
If a person is unable to provide identifying information that an applicant, petitioner , or representative
should reasonably know , USCIS employees may refuse to respond to the request, or direct the
requestor to make an appointment at a local field of fice or create a myUSCIS account.
2. Disclosure of Information
Except for case types with heightened privacy concerns,[5] USCIS employees may communicate
about administrative case matters if the requestor is able to demonstrate his or her identity (for
example, by showing government-issued identification during an in-person encounter), or provide
verifying information suf ficient to demonstrate that communication would be proper . Administrative
case matters are generally any issues that do not involve the legal substance or merit of an application
or petition.
USCIS employees should not disclose PII when responding to case-specific requests; inquiries can
generally be resolved without any discussion of PII.[6] To ensure that a USCIS employee is not
disclosing PII, the USCIS employee can always require that the requestor first provide and confirm
any PII at issue. In addition, a USCIS employee may take action that results in the resending of cards,
notices, or documents containing PII to addresses on file instead of directly disclosing PII to a
requestor .
Interested parties may be present at in-person appointments or during telephone calls, with the
consent of the applicant or petitioner . Consent is usually implied if both the applicant or petitioner and
the third party are present together . However , a USCIS employee may always ask the applicant or
petitioner if he or she consents to the third-party’ s presence if there is any doubt.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 175/2618