requiring operation, cancers, strokes, conditions requiring extensive therapy or surgical procedures,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, severe respiratory conditions or nervous disorders, mental
disorders or dementia, and severe injuries.
History as an Offender
USCIS considers any change in criminal history or the history of abuse or violence as an of fender
(substance use, sexual abuse, child abuse or neglect, or family violence), whether or not it resulted in
an arrest or criminal charges, to be a significant change.
Child Placement or Adoption
If multiple children are adopted and enter the household at dif ferent times throughout the suitability
application validity period, an updated home study addressing the addition of a child into the home
and an updated suitability application approval is required.
2. Change of Country
A PAP must request an updated suitability approval to reflect a change of country if the P AP seeks to
adopt from a country that is dif ferent than what the P AP indicated on the suitability application. A PAP
may file for a change of country at any time. USCIS does not limit the number of change of country
requests that the P AP may submit.
While the suitability application is pending, the P AP must notify USCIS in writing to request a change
of country .[25] After the suitability application is approved, the P AP must submit a Request for Action
on Approved Form I-600A/I-600 ( Form I-600A/I-600 Supplement 3 ) (for the orphan process) or
Request for Action on Approved Form I-800A  (Form I-800A  Supplement 3 ) (for the Hague Adoption
Convention process) to request a change of country , with fee,[26] if applicable. There is no fee
associated with changes of country before the approval of the suitability application or for the first or
second change of country request after the suitability application is approved.[27] There is a fee for
any subsequent change of country request.[28] The P AP must submit an updated home study if the
prior home study submitted to USCIS did not recommend the P APs for adoption of a child from the
new country .
3. Summary of Change and Update Requirements
The following tables provide a summary of the change and update requirements associated with
suitability determinations for either orphan or Hague cases.
 
Suitability-Related Actions8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 929/2618