Because trauma impacts every person dif ferently , what is traumatizing to one person may not be
traumatizing to another . In some cases, trauma may result in the applicant being unable to recollect or
express all details of the victimization in a linear fashion. Of ficers must review inconsistencies in the
applicant’ s story over the course of the applicant’ s immigration journey in light of this fact, particularly if
the applicant has established that the applicant is a victim of a severe form of traf ficking in persons.
A person’ s recollection of traumatic experiences may shift over time. As such, inconsistencies in the
applicant’ s account of victimization may not necessarily be indicators of fraud or lack of credibility but
may instead be the result of a fragmented recollection due to trauma.
In addition, traf ficking survivors may experience fear or mistrust of authorities, including law
enforcement or immigration authorities, that may lead them to provide inconsistent information.
USCIS considers the totality of the circumstances in evaluating any inconsistencies in the record,
including but not limited to:
Any potential physical or mental ef fects of trauma; 
Where it appears the applicant has a fear or mistrust of authorities;
The applicant’ s background and individual circumstances; and
Any other relevant factors.
If, after considering the totality of the circumstances, USCIS believes the inconsistencies in the
evidence raise eligibility concerns, USCIS provides written notice of the issues in a Request for
Evidence (RFE) or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID), giving the applicant the opportunity to respond
and resolve the inconsistencies.
2. Weighing and Determining the Credibility of Evidence
Officers should not require the applicant to submit particular types of evidence and may not deny
applications for T nonimmigrant status due to the applicant’ s failure to do so. However , officers may
deny an application for T nonimmigrant status where evidence lacks credibility , and the credibility
concerns are not overcome by other evidence, such that the applicant has not met their burden of
proof to establish eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Of ficers must examine each piece of
evidence individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence for relevance, probative
value, and credibility .[9]
The determination of what evidence is credible and the weight given to each type of evidence is within
the sole discretion of USCIS and determined on a case-by-case basis.[10] Evidence that is relevant
includes specific facts that address the eligibility criteria for T nonimmigrant status. Probative value
speaks not to the quantity of evidence but instead to its quality . Evidence that is credible is plausible,
sufficiently detailed, and internally and externally consistent regarding each eligibility requirement.[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 676/2618