and may be used to prove employment authorization and authorization to return to the United States
after temporary foreign travel.[27]
2. Other T emporary Evidence of Permanent Resident Status
USCIS may issue temporary evidence of LPR status in other formats, such as an Alien
Documentation, Identification and Telecommunication (ADIT) stamp (also known as an I-551 stamp).
For example, LPRs who are not in possession of their PRC may need an ADIT  stamp as temporary
evidence of LPR status and employment authorization.
LPRs whose Form I-90  is still pending adjudication and whose PRC and extension notice have
expired, may also request documentation of status for travel, employment, or other purposes. USCIS
determines if the requestor should receive an ADIT  stamp and has the discretion to determine the
validity period based on the LPR’ s situation.
LPRs may obtain an ADIT  stamp by calling the USCIS Contact Center  to schedule an appointment
with a USCIS field of fice. An of ficer may only place an ADIT  stamp on Arrival/Departure Record (Form
I-94) or in an unexpired passport.
G. Adjudication
1. Lawful Permanent Resident Status
The of ficer reviews evidence submitted by the applicant to verify that the applicant is an LPR. An
officer verifies an applicant’ s status using USCIS systems and records.
2. Security Checks
Officers should ensure biographic and biometric security checks are completed, and remain valid
through adjudication of the application.
3. Requests for Evidence and Interviews
Officers may issue Requests for Evidence for an application to replace a PRC.[28] In some cases,
USCIS may refer a Form I-90 applicant to a field of fice for an interview .[29]
4. Decision
Approval
USCIS may approve a Form I-90 if the applicant meets the following requirements:
The application is signed or certified via internet filing;
All applicable fees have been paid (unless waived or not required);
The applicant established his or her identity;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2245/2618