B. Filing
An Iraqi citizen or national who has worked for or on behalf of the U.S. government may file a Petition
for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) on his or her own behalf. The petitioner
must file Form I-360 according to the form instructions.[7]
C. Eligibility
To obtain approval of a petition for special immigrant status as an Iraqi who worked for or on behalf of
the U.S. government under the RCIA,[8] the petitioner must establish that the petitioner:[9]
Is a citizen or national of Iraq;
Was employed by , or on behalf of, the U.S. government in Iraq on or after March 20, 2003, and
before September 30, 2013, for a period of not less than 1 year;
Provided faithful and valuable service to the U.S. government, as documented in a positive
recommendation or evaluation by the petitioner ’s supervisor;
Has experienced or is experiencing an ongoing serious threat as a consequence of the
petitioner ’s employment by the U.S. government;
Has cleared a background check and appropriate screening as determined by the Secretary of
Homeland Security; and
Is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant visa and is otherwise admissible to the United
States for permanent residence.[10]
D. Documentation and Evidence
The petitioner must submit the following evidence along with a completed Form I-360 :
A copy of the petitioner ’s passport, nationality or birth certificate, or national identification card
showing that the petitioner is a citizen or national of Iraq, along with a certified English
translation, if the document is in a foreign language;
A positive recommendation from:
U.S. citizen or national who is the petitioner ’s senior supervisor;
U.S. citizen or national who occupies the supervisor ’s position;
U.S. citizen or national who is more senior if the senior supervisor has left the employer or
has left Iraq; or
The petitioner ’s senior supervisor , provided the U.S. citizen or national responsible for the
contract co-signs the letter , confirming employment of not less than 1 year beginning on or
after March 20, 2003, and ending before September 30, 2013, if it is not possible to obtain
a recommendation from a supervisor who is a U.S. citizen or national;
Proof of COM approval based on an independent review of this recommendation conducted by
the COM, Embassy Baghdad, or the petitioner ’s designee, of records maintained by the U.S.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1346/2618