[^ 73]  See 20 CFR 656.15(f) . See Section H, Filing Requirements [ 6 USCIS-PM E.7(H) ].
Chapter 8 - Documentation and Evidence
A. Filing
To seek an employment-based immigrant classification on behalf of a beneficiary , the petitioner must
properly file an Immigrant Petition for Alien W orkers ( Form I-140 ) with the appropriate fee with the
appropriate USCIS location.[1]
1. Priority Dates
The priority date is used in conjunction with the U.S. Department of State’ s (DOS) Visa Bulletin  to
determine when a visa is available and the beneficiary can apply for adjustment of status or for an
immigrant visa abroad. If an immigrant visa is available for the petition’ s priority date, and the
beneficiary is otherwise eligible for adjustment of status, the beneficiary may file an Application to
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ) concurrently with the petition.[2]
Schedule A Permanent Labor Certifications and Petitions Not Supported by a Permanent Labor
Certification
The priority date for a petition supported by a Schedule A designation, or for a petition approved for a
classification that does not require a permanent labor certification, is the date the petition is filed with
USCIS.[3]
Individual Permanent Labor Certifications Filed with the U.S. Department of Labor
The priority date for a petition supported by an Application for Permanent Employment Certification
(ETA Form 9089) (also referred to as the permanent labor certification application) filed with the U.S.
Department of Labor (DOL) on or after March 28, 2005 is the earliest date the application for
permanent labor certification is filed with DOL.[4] In some cases, the date of filing in the certification
section of the ET A Form 9089 may be blank. In such instances, USCIS may request a corroborative
statement or other evidence from DOL  that clarifies what the correct priority date should be.
Where the beneficiary’ s priority date is established by the filing of the permanent labor certification,
once the beneficiary’ s petition has been approved, the beneficiary retains his or her priority date as
established by the filing of the permanent labor certification for any future petitions, unless:
USCIS revokes the approval of the previously approved petition because of fraud or willful
misrepresentation;
DOL revokes the approval of the permanent labor certification; or
USCIS determines that the petition approval was based on a material error .[5]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1139/2618