There are limited circumstances where an applicant may be able to establish that he or she is living in
marital union with his or her citizen spouse even though the applicant does not actually reside with the
citizen spouse.[19]
In all cases where it is applicable, the burden is on the applicant to establish that he or she has lived in
marital union with his or her U.S. citizen spouse for the required period of time.[20]
2. Loss of Marital Union due to Death, Divorce, or Expatriation
Death of U.S. Citizen Spouse
An applicant is ineligible to naturalize as the spouse of a U.S. citizen if the U.S. citizen dies any time
prior to the applicant taking the Oath of Allegiance.[21] However , if the applicant is the surviving
spouse of a U.S. citizen who died during a period of honorable service in an active-duty status in the
U.S. armed forces, the applicant may be eligible for naturalization based on his or her marriage under
a special provision.[22]
Divorce or Annulment
A person’ s marital status may be terminated by a judicial divorce or by an annulment. A divorce or
annulment breaks the marital relationship. The applicant is no longer the spouse of a U.S. citizen if the
marriage is terminated by a divorce or annulment. Accordingly , such an applicant is ineligible to
naturalize as the spouse of a U.S. citizen if the divorce or annulment occurs before or after the
naturalization application is filed.[23]
The result of annulment is to declare a marriage null and void from its inception. An annulment is
usually retroactive, meaning that the marriage is considered to be invalid from the beginning. A court's
jurisdiction to grant an annulment is set forth in the various divorce statutes and generally requires
residence or domicile of the parties in that jurisdiction. When a marriage has been annulled, it is
documented by a court order or decree. 
In contrast, the ef fect of a judicial divorce is to terminate the status as of the date on which the court
entered the final decree of divorce. When a marriage is terminated by divorce, the termination is
entered by the court with jurisdiction and is documented by a copy of the final divorce decree. USCIS
determines the validity of a divorce by examining whether the state or country which granted the
divorce properly assumed jurisdiction over the divorce proceeding.[24] USCIS also determines
whether the parties followed the proper legal formalities required by the state or country in which the
divorce was obtained to determine if the divorce is legally binding.[25] In all cases, the divorce must be
final.
An applicant’ s ineligibility for naturalization as the spouse of a U.S. citizen due to the death of the
citizen spouse or to divorce is not cured by the subsequent marriage to another U.S. citizen. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2436/2618