An of ficer may conduct a naturalization examination in an applicant’ s home or other residence such as
a nursing home, hospice, hospital, or senior citizens center when appropriate.[6] This applies to cases
where the applicant’ s illness or disability makes it medically unsuitable for him or her to appear at the
field of fice in person.
B. Accommodations for the Naturalization T est
An applicant with a disability may require an accommodation to take the English and civics tests. The
officer should use the appropriate accommodation to meet the applicant’ s particular needs. In addition,
some applicants with disabilities may qualify for an exception to these requirements for naturalization.
[7]
The table below serves as a quick reference guide listing common examples of accommodations to
the naturalization test for applicants with disabilities. The paragraphs that follow the table provide
further guidance on each accommodation.[8]
Accommodations for the Naturalization Test
Accommodation Explanation
Providing reading tests in
large print or brailleApplicants who have low vision or are blind or deafblind may need
large print or braille in order to be able to read the test.
Oral writing test Applicants with physical impairments or with limited use of their
hands may be able to complete the writing test orally if they
cannot write the sentences.
Allowing nonverbal
communicationApplicants may be able to communicate in nonverbal ways if they
cannot respond verbally to questions.[9]
Providing sign language
interpretersDeaf or hard of hearing applicants may need a sign language
interpreter to complete the tests.
1. Providing Reading T est in Large Print or Braille
An of ficer should provide the current reading naturalization test version in large print or braille for
applicants who have low vision or are blind or deafblind.[10] To request large print or braille-related or
other accommodations, applicants should call the USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY :8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2295/2618