An adjustment applicant may be eligible to adjust status based on an approved religious worker
petition even if: 
The applicant is now employed or has ever been employed in the United States without
authorization; 
The applicant is not maintaining a lawful nonimmigrant status on the date he or she files the
adjustment application; 
The applicant has ever failed to continuously maintain a lawful status since entry into the United
State; or
The applicant has ever violated the terms of his or her nonimmigrant status. 
2. Special Immigrant Juveniles[4]
The only adjustment bar that applies to a special immigrant juvenile adjustment applicant is the bar for
being deportable due to involvement in a terrorist activity or group.[5] There is no exemption if this bar
applies. 
3. Afghanistan and Iraq Nationals[6]
This immigrant visa category generally includes: 
Special immigrant Afghanistan or Iraq national who worked with the U.S. armed forces as a
translator; 
Special immigrant Iraq national who was employed by or on behalf of the U.S. government; and 
Special immigrant Afghanistan national who was employed by or on behalf of the U.S.
government or in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan. 
An adjustment applicant applying as a special immigrant Afghanistan or Iraq national may be eligible
to adjust status even if:
The applicant is now employed or has ever been employed in the United States without
authorization; 
The applicant is not in lawful immigration status on the date he or she files the adjustment
application;
The applicant has ever failed to continuously maintain a lawful status since entry into the United
States; 
The applicant is not maintaining a lawful nonimmigrant status on the date he or she files the
adjustment application; or
The applicant has ever violated the terms of his or her nonimmigrant status. 
4. G-4 International Organization Employees, NA TO-6 Employees, and Their Family Members
This immigrant visa category generally includes:  8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1591/2618