court order does not in itself guarantee that USCIS will determine that the adoptee beneficiary is
no longer habitually resident in the country of origin.); or
Evidence that the adoptee beneficiary was a ward of the state or court before the adoption.
Adverse Factors
If there is evidence that the adoptee beneficiary lived outside of the United States shortly before the
adoption, USCIS may consider it as an adverse factor .
3. Notice Criteria
The notice criteria is required in any case where the adoption took place on or after February 3, 2014.
If the petitioner cannot obtain a written statement addressing an adoptee beneficiary’ s habitual
residence from the Central Authority of the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin in 120 days, the
petitioner still must notify the Central Authority of the adoption in a manner satisfactory to the court.
The Central Authority then has an additional 120 days to object to the adoption. 
Notification Process
When notifying the Central Authority in the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin of the adoption
proceedings, the petitioner must follow the court’ s rules of procedure or the instructions in a specific
order from the court. If permitted by the court, the petitioner can send both the request for a habitual
residence statement and the notice of the court proceeding to the Central Authority at the same time.
The notification can take the form of a court order or another document authorized by the court. Notice
by email or fax is generally not suf ficient unless the court rules clearly allow for email or fax
notifications. 
The notice must include a copy of the adoption petition or the motion for amended adoption order and
must clearly specify:
The name of the adoptee beneficiary , together with the place and date of birth of the adoptee
beneficiary , and the name(s) of the birth parent(s), if known;
The country of the adoptee beneficiary’ s nationality;
The name of the agency or person who is the Central Authority in the adoptee beneficiary’ s
country of origin;
The names of the adopting parents;
The date of the adoptee beneficiary’ s departure from the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin,
if known;
The date of the adoptee beneficiary’ s arrival in the United States, if known;
The court name and the date, time, and place of the court’ s hearing on the adoption petition or
motion for amended adoption order; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1027/2618