EAD stage aligns with inadmissibility grounds evaluated during the adjudication of a petition for U
nonimmigrant status and is therefore a consistent exercise of discretion within the authority af forded
by INA 214(p)(6)  to grant BFD EADs.
A petitioner who is not issued a BFD EAD due to the risk the petitioner appears to pose to national
security or public safety receives a full adjudication for waiting list placement. During the adjudication
for waiting list placement, petitioners have the opportunity to provide USCIS with potentially mitigating
information or other evidence pertaining to arrests or convictions.
USCIS issues petitioners a BFD EAD and grants deferred action in order to promote victim stability
and continued cooperation with law enforcement. However , USCIS updates and reviews background
and security checks at regular intervals during the validity period of a principal petitioner or a qualifying
family member ’s BFD EAD.
Additionally , USCIS retains discretion to update background and security checks at any time when
case-specific circumstances warrant. During those reviews, USCIS evaluates whether the petitioner
and qualifying family members who have been granted BFD EADs and deferred action continue to
warrant the BFD EAD and merit a favorable exercise of discretion while their petitions for U
nonimmigrant status are pending with USCIS.
USCIS reserves the right to revoke the BFD EAD[26] and terminate the grant of deferred action at any
time if it determines the BFD EAD or favorable exercise of discretion are no longer warranted, or the
prior BFD EAD and deferred action were granted in error .
For example, USCIS may revoke the BFD EAD and terminate deferred action if USCIS identifies any
adverse information, such as new information pertaining to the risks the petitioner poses to national
security or public safety , or the withdrawal of a petitioner ’s Form I-918, Supplement B. At that time,
USCIS initiates a waiting list adjudication to gather additional information and evidence to determine if
the petitioner is eligible for a waiver of inadmissibility for any relevant inadmissibility grounds and
placement on the waiting list.
2. Previously Filed Form I-765 for Bona Fide Determination Process
USCIS uses all Applications for Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ) already filed by principal
petitioners under 8 CFR 274a.12(a)(19) and (c)(14)  to issue a BFD EAD. USCIS also uses Form I-765
applications previously filed under 8 CFR 274a.12(a)(20) and (c)(14)  for a qualifying family member to
issue a BFD EAD to qualifying family members. Using previously filed applications limits the burden on
petitioners to file additional paperwork.
Where a petitioner has filed a Form I-918 but has not filed an accompanying application for
employment authorization under 8 CFR 274a.12(a)(19), (a)(20) or (c)(14) , USCIS issues a notice
indicating that the petitioner has received a BFD and may receive a BFD EAD. To obtain an EAD, the
petitioner must file a Form I-765  after receiving this notice.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 735/2618