B. Mobile Biometrics Collection
Mobile biometrics collection refers to a service USCIS provides in which the agency collects
biometrics (for example, fingerprints and photographs, etc.) from persons with pending benefit
requests (including derivatives, beneficiaries, or both), at pre-determined locations outside of an ASC.
Mobile biometrics collection is typically performed by USCIS employees or contractors.[20] USCIS has
sole discretion to conduct mobile biometrics collection.[21]
USCIS may provide domestic mobile biometric services to persons with a disability or health reason
that prevents them from appearing in person at an ASC.[22] In very limited circumstances, USCIS
may, in its sole discretion, provide domestic mobile biometric services to other benefit requestors who
are unable to attend scheduled ASC appointments in person.[23]
Remote Locations
USCIS may , in its sole discretion and on a case-by-case basis, provide mobile biometrics collection
services to persons residing in remote locations within the United States who are unable to attend
scheduled ASC appointments in person.
When determining whether to exercise its discretion after a request for mobile biometrics collection,
USCIS considers circumstances such as the dif ficulty of travel, the distance a person must travel to an
ASC, and ef ficient use of USCIS resources. If USCIS can provide mobile biometric services, USCIS
will inform the person.
Persons in Custody
USCIS does not grant requests to collect biometrics from persons in custody at correctional
institutions. USCIS of ficers and contract staf f therefore do not travel to jails, prisons, or similar non-
DHS detention facilities to perform biometric collections for any detained or incarcerated persons
(including applicants, petitioners, beneficiaries, derivatives, sponsors, or other requestors, regardless
of their immigration status or country of citizenship). In the case of an incarcerated person, USCIS
officers must continue to follow all applicable regulations and procedures in issuing ASC notices to
those whose appearance is required for biometrics collection. Per intradepartmental agreement, U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Enforcement and Removal Operations is responsible for
completing background and security checks for those who are incarcerated at DHS facilities and
applying for benefits with USCIS.
USCIS generally does not approve requests to reschedule a biometrics appointment for reason of
detention or incarceration. The person must follow the procedures listed in the biometrics appointment
notice to request their appointment be rescheduled.[24]
C. Fingerprint W aivers8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 255/2618