Even though INA 204(l)  does not impact adjustment requirements related to admissibility and waivers,
the provision does “remove ineligibility based solely on the lack of a qualifying family relationship.”
Since INA  204(l) af fects not only the visa petition and adjustment application but also any related
application, USCIS has determined that INA  204(l) provides the discretion to grant a waiver or other
form of relief from inadmissibility to a qualifying applicant, even if the qualifying relationship that would
have supported the waiver has ended through death. It is not necessary for the waiver or other relief
application to have been pending when the qualifying relative died.
A waiver or other relief application may be approved despite the death of the qualifying relative if: 
A petition or adjustment application was pending or approved when the qualifying relative died;
and
 The applicant meets the residency requirement.[24]
If a pending petition or application to which INA 204(l)  applies is denied despite INA  204(l), the
applicant may not obtain approval of a waiver or other relief under INA  204(l). 
Some waivers require a showing of extreme hardship to a qualifying relative, who must be either a
U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident (LPR). Since the legislation intends to have INA
204(l)  extend not only to the approval of the pending petition, but also to any related applications, the
fact that the qualifying relative has died should be noted in the waiver decision. If the qualifying relative
who died is the same qualifying relative to whom extreme hardship must be established in order to
grant a waiver , USCIS treats the qualifying relative’ s death as the functional equivalent of a finding of
extreme hardship. However , for this to apply , the deceased relative must have been a U.S. citizen or
LPR at the time of death.[25]
A finding of extreme hardship permits, but does not compel, a favorable exercise of discretion.[26] As
with any other discretionary waiver application, the of ficer should weigh the favorable factors against
any adverse factors. Extreme hardship is just one positive factor to be weighed in the discretionary
determination.[27] The conduct that made the applicant inadmissible is itself an adverse factor .[28] For
example, if the applicant is inadmissible based on criminal grounds, the of ficer considers the nature,
seriousness, and underlying circumstances of the crime to determine the weight given to this adverse
factor .
2. Conditional Residency
If an adjustment applicant would have received permanent residence on a conditional basis due to the
recent nature of the marriage to the petitioning spouse, but the petitioning spouse dies before
adjustment is granted, then the adjustment applicant should receive permanent residence without
condition. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1514/2618