venture, as the joint venture stands alone outside the two parties that entered into the contractual
arrangement.[12]
C. Partnerships
A partnership is the shared ownership of a business, that is, a relationship existing between two or
more persons who join to carry on a trade or business.[13] A partnership may meet the requirements
for a qualifying organization if it meets one of the regulatory definitions of a parent, branch, subsidiary ,
or affiliate.[14] When submitting evidence of ownership and control of a partnership, the petitioner must
submit a copy of the partnership agreement. To establish what the partnership owns and controls,
other evidence may be necessary . For example, petitioners generally provide partnership agreements
and the partnership’ s IRS Form 1065 to establish who owns and controls a partnership.
By law , international partnerships that provide accounting services or management consulting services
may meet the criteria as qualifying organizations for L-1 purposes. USCIS does not require extensive
documentation in such cases.
D. Corporations
A corporation is a separate legal entity , owned by its shareholders. It is an association of individual
natural persons or organizations created by state law that exists as an entity with powers and liabilities
that are independent of its owners.[15] Corporations may meet the requirements for a qualifying
organization if it meets one of the regulatory definitions of a parent, branch, subsidiary , or af filiate.[16]
A corporation may file an L-1 on behalf of an alien stockholder , as the corporation is a distinct legal
entity .
E. Limited Liability Companies
An LLC is a hybrid entity . Earnings and losses pass through to the owners, who include those earning
and losses on their personal tax returns. An LLC may file an L-1 petition on behalf of a member
(owner), as an LLC is deemed to be a distinct legal entity .
F. Franchises
In order to establish a qualifying relationship in an L-1 visa petition that involves franchises, the
petitioner must show that the required relationship exists between the foreign entity and the petitioner ,
not the franchise owned and operated by the petitioner .
USCIS regulations indicate that a petitioner can establish a qualifying relationship by showing
ownership and control of the entities.[17] If a franchise agreement only outlines how two independently
owned companies can use or license a name or a product, then such agreement does not generally
create a qualifying relationship between franchisor and franchisee. A contractual agreement of this8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 489/2618