The immigrant investor is personally and primarily liable for the debt;
The indebtedness is secured by assets the immigrant investor owns; and
The assets of the new commercial enterprise are not used to secure any of the indebtedness.
The immigrant investor must have primary responsibility , under the loan documents, for repaying the
debt used to satisfy his or her minimum required investment amount.[14]
The immigrant investor must also demonstrate that his or her own collateral secures the indebtedness,
and that the value of the collateral is suf ficient to secure the amount of indebtedness that satisfies the
immigrant investor ’s minimum required investment amount. Any indebtedness secured by the
immigrant investor ’s assets qualifies as capital only up to the fair market value of the immigrant
investor ’s pledged assets.
2. Investment
The immigrant investor is required to invest his or her own capital. The petitioner must document the
path of the funds to establish that the investment was made, or is actively in the process of being
made, with the immigrant investor ’s own funds.[15] For petitions filed on or after March 15, 2022, the
capital must be expected to remain invested for not less than 2 years.[16]
To invest means to contribute capital. A loan from the immigrant investor to the new commercial
enterprise does not count as a contribution of capital. A contribution of capital in exchange for a note,
bond, convertible debt, obligation, or any other debt arrangement between the immigrant investor and
the new commercial enterprise is not a capital investment.[17]
To qualify as an investment, the immigrant investor must actually place his or her capital at risk. The
mere intent to invest is not suf ficient.[18]
Purchasing a share of a business from an existing shareholder , without more, does not qualify , since
the payment goes to the former shareholder rather than to the new commercial enterprise.
Guaranteed Returns
If the immigrant investor is guaranteed a return, or a rate of return, on all or a portion of their capital,
then the amount of any guaranteed return is not at risk.[19] For the capital to be at risk, there must be
a risk of loss and a chance for gain.
Additionally , if the investor is guaranteed the right to eventual ownership or use of a particular asset in
consideration of the investor ’s contribution of capital into the new commercial enterprise, the expected
present value of the guaranteed ownership or use of such asset counts against the total amount of the
investor ’s capital contribution in determining how much money was placed at risk. For example, if the
immigrant investor is given a right of ownership or use of real estate, the present value of that real
estate is not counted as investment capital put at risk of loss.[20]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1243/2618