Nothing prevents an immigrant investor from receiving a return on his or her capital in the form of a
distribution of profits from the new commercial enterprise. This distribution of profits may happen
during the conditional residency period and may happen before creating the required jobs. However ,
the distribution cannot be a portion of the investor ’s minimum qualifying investment and cannot have
been guaranteed to the investor .
Redemption Language for Petitions Filed Before March 15, 2022
USCIS relies on regulatory language and precedent decisions to address redemption agreements.
The regulatory definition of “invest” excludes capital contributions that are “in exchange for a note,
bond, convertible debt, obligation, or any other debt arrangement.”[21]
An agreement evidencing a preconceived intent to exit the investment as soon as possible after
removing conditions on permanent residence may constitute an impermissible debt arrangement.[22]
Funds contributed in exchange for a debt arrangement do not constitute a qualifying contribution of
capital.[23] In general, the petitioner may not enter into the agreement knowing that he or she has a
willing buyer at a certain time and for a certain price.[24]
Any agreement between the immigrant investor and the new commercial enterprise that provides the
investor with a contractual right to repayment is an impermissible debt arrangement. In such a case,
the investment funds do not constitute a qualifying contribution of capital.[25] Mandatory redemptions
and options exercisable by the investor are two examples of agreements where the investor has a
right to repayment. The impermissibility of such an arrangement cannot be remedied with the addition
of other requirements or contingencies, such as conditioning the repurchase of the securities on the
availability of funds; the delay of the repurchase until a date in the future (including after the
adjudication of the Petition by Investor to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status ( Form I-
829)); or the possibility that the investor might not exercise the right. In other words, repayment does
not need to be guaranteed in order to be impermissible. It is the establishment of the investor ’s right to
demand a repurchase, regardless of the new commercial enterprise’ s ability to fulfill the repurchase,
that constitutes an impermissible debt arrangement.[26]
The following table describes certain characteristics that might be present in agreements and explains
whether their inclusion creates an impermissible debt arrangement.
Characteristics of Redemption Provisions
Type of
ProvisionDescription Impermissible Agreement?
Mandatory
redemptionsArrangements that require the new
commercial enterprise to redeem
all or a portion of the petitioner ’s
equity at a specified time or uponUSCIS considers this an impermissible debt
arrangement. Such impermissible obligations
are not subject to the discretion of the new
commercial enterprise (although it may have8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1244/2618