If the petitioner filed a Form I-730  petition for a beneficiary who was located abroad but then later
enters the United States, the petitioner should notify USCIS that the beneficiary has relocated to the
United States in order for USCIS to re-route the petition for further domestic processing.[10] If USCIS
has not adjudicated the Form I-730 petition, USCIS notifies the petitioner that it is transferring the
petition to another USCIS of fice and sends the unadjudicated petition to the appropriate domestic field
office for interview and adjudication.
If an I-730 beneficiary is in the United States, USCIS generally requests that the beneficiary appear for
an interview . USCIS sends a written notice of the date, time, and place of the scheduled interview to
the beneficiary .
2. Beneficiaries Located Outside the United States
After USCIS completes initial domestic processing for a beneficiary living outside of the United States,
USCIS sends the petition to the NVC for forwarding to the appropriate DOS of fice or USCIS
international field of fice.[11]
USCIS interviews beneficiaries located outside of the United States in locations abroad where there is
a USCIS international field of fice with jurisdiction. DOS consular of ficers interview beneficiaries in
locations abroad without USCIS international field of fice jurisdiction. USCIS or DOS notifies the
beneficiary of the date, time, and place of their interview . Subject to local of fice or DOS embassy or
consulate policy , USCIS or DOS may require the beneficiary to bring their own interpreter .
3. Interviews
Documentation for Interviews
The beneficiary must provide a certified English translation for any documents provided in support of
the Form I-730  if the documents are not in English.[12]
USCIS Interviews
USCIS staf f contact and schedule Form I-730  beneficiaries for an interview in a location abroad with a
USCIS international field of fice. During the beneficiary interview , the USCIS of ficer:
Confirms the beneficiary’ s identity;
Reviews documentation;
Completes required biographic and biometric checks (which may require coordination with DOS
and other vetting partners);
Verifies the qualifying family relationship;
Determines whether any mandatory bars or inadmissibility grounds apply; and
Arranges medical examination and sponsorship assurance (for Form I-730  FTJ-R beneficiaries
only).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 864/2618