will be created by the end of this 2-year period.
Troubled Business
In the case of a troubled business, a comprehensive business plan must accompany the other
required evidentiary documents.[129]
Regional Center -Based Petitions Filed before July 1, 2021
In the case of a new commercial enterprise within a regional center , the direct or indirect job creation
may be demonstrated by the types of documents identified in this section along with reasonable
methodologies.[130] If a regional center immigrant investor seeks to rely on jobs that will be created to
satisfy the job creation requirement, a comprehensive business plan is required.
Additionally , if the regional center immigrant investor seeks to demonstrate job creation through the
use of an economic input-output model, USCIS requires the investor to demonstrate that the
methodology is reasonable. For example, if the inputs into the input-output model reflect jobs created
directly at the new commercial enterprise or job-creating entity , USCIS requires the investor to
demonstrate that the direct jobs input is reasonable. Relevant documentation may include Form I-9 ,
tax or payroll records or if the jobs are not yet in existence, a comprehensive business plan
demonstrating how many jobs will be created and when the jobs will be created.
If the inputs into the model reflect expenditures, USCIS requires the investor to demonstrate that the
expenditures input is reasonable. Relevant documentation may include receipts and other financial
records for expenditures that have occurred and a detailed projection of sales, costs, and income
projections such as a pro-forma cash flow statement associated with the business plan for
expenditures that will occur .
If the inputs into the model reflect revenues, USCIS requires the investor to demonstrate that the
revenues input is reasonable. Relevant documentation may include tax or other financial records for
revenues that have occurred or a detailed projection of sales, costs, and income projections such as a
pro-forma income statement associated with the business plan for revenues that will occur .
In reviewing whether an economic methodology is reasonable, USCIS analyzes whether the
multipliers and assumptions about the geographic impact of the project are reasonable. For example,
when reviewing the geographic level of the multipliers used in an input-output model, the following
factors, among others, may be considered:
The area’ s demographic structure (for example, labor pool supply , work-force rate, population
growth, and population density);
The area’ s contribution to supply chains of the project; and
Connectivity with respect to socioeconomic variables in the area (for example, income level and
purchasing power).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1266/2618