2. Case Law
New case law may change how the law is applied between the time an applicant is lawfully admitted
for permanent residence and the time USCIS adjudicates his or her naturalization application. The
interpretation and applicability of new case law may vary . In some cases, new case law may result in
an applicant being considered lawfully admitted even if his or her admission would have been
considered unlawful at the time of the adjudication (before the new case law). Of ficers should consult
with USCIS counsel regarding the interpretation and application of new case law in a naturalization
proceeding.
For example, in 2015, the Supreme Court held that a drug paraphernalia conviction was not a
conviction “relating to a controlled substance” unless an element of the conviction could be connected
to a federally controlled substance.[64] This decision overturned an earlier Board of Immigration
Appeals (BIA) interpretation that held that a drug paraphernalia conviction “relates to” any and all
controlled substances with which the drug paraphernalia can be used.[65]
Therefore, if an applicant adjusted status and applied for naturalization before 2015 and had a
conviction for possession of drug paraphernalia under the applicable state law at that time, the
conviction would likely have qualified as a violation of a law relating to a controlled substance, and
rendered the applicant inadmissible at the time of adjustment, as outlined in the earlier BIA
interpretation. The applicant in this scenario would therefore have been ineligible for naturalization
under INA  318 prior to the Supreme Court decision.[66]
However , if the same applicant applied for naturalization after 2015, his or her conviction would be
analyzed under the Supreme Court decision. Under the case law , the conviction would not qualify as a
violation of a law relating to a controlled substance unless an element of the conviction could be
connected to a federally controlled substance. Therefore, even though the applicant’ s adjustment
would have been considered unlawful before 2015, because of the new case law , the applicant is now
likely considered to have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence for the purposes of INA  318.
Temporary Protected Status and Admission or Parole into the United States for Adjustment of Status
[Reserved][67]
ALERT : USCIS has updated V olume 7 of the Policy Manual to reflect developments in case law and
USCIS policy regarding TPS beneficiaries and their eligibility for adjustment of status under INA
245(a). See Temporary Protected Status and Eligibility for Adjustment of Status under Section 245(a)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act, PA-2022-16, issued July 1, 2022.
D. Underlying Basis of Admission
To adjust status to that of an LPR or be admitted as an LPR, an applicant must first be eligible for one
of the immigrant visa categories established under the law . During a naturalization proceeding, the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2308/2618