An applicant may provide evidence from an LEA  by submitting a Declaration for Trafficking V ictim
(Form I-914, Supplement B ). The Supplement B must be signed by a supervising of ficial responsible
for the investigation or prosecution of severe forms of traf ficking in persons.
The LEA  completing the Supplement B should attach the results of any name or database inquiries
performed and describe the victimization (including dates where known) and the cooperation of the
victim. USCIS, not the LEA, determines if the applicant was or is a victim of a severe form of traf ficking
in persons and otherwise meets the eligibility requirements for T nonimmigrant status. Under federal
law, the decision of whether to complete a Supplement B is within the discretion of the LEA.[19] A
formal investigation or prosecution is not required to complete a Supplement B.[20]
An LEA  may disavow or withdraw the contents of a previously submitted Supplement B in writing.[21]
After disavowal or withdrawal, USCIS generally no longer considers the Supplement B as evidence of
the applicant’ s compliance with requests for assistance in the LEA ’s detection, investigation, or
prosecution. However , USCIS may consider a disavowed or withdrawn Supplement B for other
eligibility requirements along with any other credible evidence relevant to the application.[22]
USCIS determines whether to consider the disavowed or withdrawn Supplement B as evidence of
compliance by assessing the stated reasons for the disavowal or withdrawal. If there is an explanation
from the LEA  for the withdrawal or disavowal, of ficers should consider that explanation in determining
whether to still consider the declaration as evidence of compliance with requests for assistance. 
Continued Presence Documentation
An applicant granted Continued Presence (CP) by the DHS Center for Countering Human Trafficking
should submit documentation of the grant of CP .[23] DHS may revoke CP  if the recipient commits a
crime, absconds, departs without obtaining advance parole, receives an immigration benefit, or is
determined not to be a traf ficking victim. Once CP  is revoked, USCIS generally no longer considers
CP as evidence of the applicant’ s compliance with requests for assistance in the LEA ’s investigation or
prosecution, but it may be considered for other purposes.[24]
If USCIS determines that the revocation of the CP  was unrelated to an applicant’ s compliance (for
example, revocation due to the applicant departing without advance parole or for subsequent criminal
conduct), USCIS may continue to consider the grant of CP  as evidence of the applicant’ s compliance
with the LEA  investigation or prosecution.
5. Evidence of Immigration History
An applicant may also submit any evidence regarding entry , admission into, or permission to remain in
the United States, or note that such evidence is contained within an applicant’ s immigration file.[25]
6. Evidence of Severe Form of T rafficking in Persons8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 678/2618