Date Event
February 1, 2009 An alien is admitted as a B-1 nonimmigrant visitor .
July 1, 2009An employer timely files a Petition for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-
129) on behalf of the B-1 nonimmigrant to change status to an L-1
nonimmigrant intracompany transferee. 
August 1, 2009The B-1 nonimmigrant’ s authorized stay expires, as indicated on the
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94). 
September 15, 2009USCIS approves Form I-129 to change status and grants L-1 status as of
September 15, 2009.
Even though there is a gap of nearly two months between the expiration date of the B-1 status and the
date USCIS approved Form I-129, USCIS does not count the gap against the applicant when
determining if they maintained status. In this case, USCIS considers the applicant to have maintained
lawful status from February 1, 2009 through September 15, 2009 for purposes of adjusting status.
In contrast, if USCIS denied the application to change nonimmigrant status, the applicant would have
fallen out of valid status as of August 1 and would be barred from adjusting status, unless an
exemption applies.
Untimely Filed EOS or COS Application Excused and Granted by USCIS
USCIS generally denies EOS and COS applications when the applicant failed to maintain
nonimmigrant status or when the applicant’ s status expired prior to filing the application.[40]
If an applicant’ s nonimmigrant status expires before he or she files an application to extend or change
status, the application is not timely filed. USCIS has discretion to excuse the untimely filing and
approve an EOS or COS application if the applicant can demonstrate that:
The delay was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the applicant’ s control; 
The of ficer finds the delay commensurate with the circumstances; 
The applicant has not otherwise violated his or her nonimmigrant status; 
The applicant remains a bona fide nonimmigrant; and 
The applicant is not in removal proceedings.
As with a timely EOS or COS application, if USCIS approves an untimely filed application to extend or
change status, the approval is ef fective as of the date of the expiration of the prior nonimmigrant
admission period. For this reason, USCIS considers the applicant to have maintained
lawful status despite the gap in time between the expiration of the prior nonimmigrant admission and
the date of the approval. 
Example: Ef fect of Untimely Filed Extension of Stay Application Excused and Granted by USCIS8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1572/2618