Comparable evidence: Comparable evidence to establish the person's eligibility if the
standards do not readily apply to the person's occupation.[39]
occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria listed in that
regulation.
A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to the
petitioner ’s occupation is not probative. Similarly , general claims that USCIS should accept witness
letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. However , a statement from the petitioner can be
sufficient to establish whether a criterion is readily applicable if that statement is detailed, specific,
and credible.
Although of ficers do not consider comparable evidence where a particular criterion is readily
applicable to the person’ s occupation, a criterion need not be entirely inapplicable to the person’ s
occupation. Rather , the of ficer considers comparable evidence if the petitioner shows that a criterion
is not easily applicable to the person’ s job or profession.[40]
As with all extraordinary ability petitions, of ficers may consider comparable evidence in support of
petitions for persons working in science, technology , engineering, or mathematics (STEM) fields.
Specifically , if a petitioner demonstrates that a particular criterion does not readily apply to the
person’ s occupation, the petitioner may submit evidence that is of comparable significance to that
criterion to establish sustained acclaim and recognition.
For instance, if the publication of scholarly articles is not readily applicable to a person whose
occupation is in an industry rather than academia, a petitioner might demonstrate that the person’ s
presentation of work at a major trade show is of comparable significance to that criterion.
As another example, if the petitioner demonstrates that receipt of a high salary is not readily
applicable to the person’ s position as an entrepreneur , the petitioner might present evidence that the
person’ s highly valued equity holdings in the startup are of comparable significance to the high
salary criterion.
The following are other non-exhaustive examples of where the comparable evidence provision
might apply:
A person who is an Olympic coach whose athlete wins an Olympic medal while under the
person's principal tutelage would likely constitute evidence comparable to that in 8 CFR
204.5(h)(3)(v) ; or
Election to a national all-star or Olympic team might serve as comparable evidence for
evidence of memberships in 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(ii) .
There is no comparable evidence for the one-time achievement of a major , international recognized
award.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1161/2618