the BFD process, USCIS may exercise discretion to grant deferred action[3] and a BFD Employment
Authorization Document (BFD EAD) to aliens with pending, bona fide applications for T nonimmigrant
status. This process promotes victim stability and continued cooperation with law enforcement.
The BFD process contains two steps. In the first step, USCIS determines whether an application is
bona fide. This involves determining whether the pending application is complete, and whether the
results of initial background checks are complete, have been reviewed, and do not present national
security concerns. In the second step, USCIS considers whether to grant deferred action and
employment authorization as part of the discretionary determination, considering all relevant factors.[4]
If USCIS grants the applicant deferred action as a result of the BFD process, USCIS then also
exercises its discretion to grant that applicant a BFD EAD for the duration of the deferred action
period. If the annual cap[5] on available visas has been met, USCIS places all applications that have
been issued a BFD on the waiting list. Once an application is on the waiting list, the next step is final
adjudication when a visa becomes available.
Only applicants living in the United States may receive deferred action, since those outside the United
States have no potential removal to be deferred. Likewise, USCIS may only issue BFD EADs to
applicants in the United States since those outside the United States cannot as a practical matter work
in the United States.[6]
B. Bona Fide Determination
Bona fide generally means “made in good faith; without fraud or deceit.”[7] Accordingly , when
interpreting the statutory term within the context of T nonimmigrant status, USCIS determines whether
an application is bona fide based on the applicant’ s compliance with initial evidence requirements and
successful completion of background checks.
1. Principal Applicants
USCIS determines a principal application is bona fide if:
The principal applicant properly filed a complete Application for T Nonimmigrant Status ( Form I-
914); and
USCIS received and reviewed the results of the principal applicant’ s initial background checks
and determined that the applicant does not present national security concerns.[8]
2. Eligible Family Members
An eligible family member is not guaranteed a BFD solely because the principal applicant receives a
BFD.[9] The record must independently demonstrate the Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant
Status ( Form I-914, Supplement A) is bona fide.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 697/2618