Criterion 9: The person has commanded a high salary , or other significantly high
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field.[37]
(which may not be equivalent to 8 hours) or are paid a certain amount for a project (involving
an unknown number of hours). However , hourly wage data may still be probative if the
petitioner submits documentation regarding the number of hours worked. Such documentation
can include, but is not limited to, pay statements, personnel records, or testimonial evidence
from the relevant employer .
For entrepreneurs or founders of startup businesses, of ficers consider evidence that the business
has received significant funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or
other such funders in evaluating the credibility of submitted contracts, job of fer letters, or other
evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services.
 
Criterion 10: Commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales.[38]
USCIS determines whether the person has enjoyed commercial successes in the performing arts.
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box of fice receipts as a measure of the person's
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and
released musical compilations or performed in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions
would be insuf ficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must show that the volume
of sales and box of fice receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved
in similar pursuits in the performing arts.
 
Comparable evidence: Comparable evidence to establish the person's eligibility if the
standards do not readily apply to the person's occupation.[39]
USCIS determines if the evidence submitted is comparable to the evidence required in 8 CFR
204.5(h)(3) .
This regulatory provision provides petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable evidence to
establish the person's eligibility , if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria described in the
regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. When evaluating such comparable
evidence, of ficers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to the person's8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1160/2618