Criterion 6:  Evidence that the beneficiary has either commanded a high salary or will
command a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services in relation to others in
the field, as evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.[65]
When evaluating assertions regarding future compensation, of ficers may consider the credibility of
submitted contracts, job of fer letters, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for
services.
Petitioners often submit wage surveys to show a comparison. W age survey data, including but not
limited to government wage survey data such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics’  Occupational
Employment and W age Statistics , may be helpful in evaluating the relative compensation for a given
field. When evaluating whether an accurate comparison is being made between the beneficiary’ s
documented remuneration and the remuneration in the survey , the following considerations, among
others, may be relevant:
The description of the occupation. Broad descriptions that include multiple occupations or
multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the field. For example,
directors and producers might be listed as a single category across industries, but evidence
that a film director receives high remuneration based on a broad range of occupational data
that include disparate occupations such as film director and radio show producer , may not be
sufficiently probative.
The validity of the survey . Some websites provide user-reported salary data, which may not be
a valid comparison if, for example, too few users reported their salaries or the data is
otherwise not credible or reliable.
Location and currency . Officers evaluate persons working outside of the United States based
on the wage statistics or comparable evidence relevant to the applicable work location, rather
than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary
would be considered high in the United States.
Salary rate being measured. Of ficers consider whether the comparison data measures an hourly
rate or an annual salary . Another consideration is how that information compares to the beneficiary’ s
pay. Many artists (including MPTV) are not paid an hourly rate but instead are paid a daily rate
(which may not be equivalent to 8 hours) or are paid a certain amount for a project (involving an
unknown number of hours). However , hourly wage data may still be probative if the petitioner
submits documentation regarding the number of hours worked. Such documentation can include,
but is not limited to, pay statements, personnel records, or testimonial evidence from the relevant
employer .
3. Comparable Evidence
If the criteria are not readily applicable to the beneficiary’ s occupation, the petitioner may submit
comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary’ s eligibility .[66]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 552/2618