review of the business after the beneficiary becomes a permanent resident in order for the beneficiary
to continue in that status.
A petitioning U.S. employer must demonstrate that the beneficiary has been employed for at least 1
year by a related organization abroad to work in a capacity that is managerial or executive.[8]
Managerial capacity includes personnel and function managers while executive capacity focuses on a
person's position within an organization.
The petitioning U.S. employer must demonstrate that it and the related organization abroad:
Maintain a qualifying relationship; and
Are both actively engaged in doing business.
The petitioning U.S. employer must also show that it has been actively engaged in doing business for
at least 1 year .[9] In addition, the petitioner must demonstrate that it has the ability to pay the
beneficiary’ s salary .[10]
B. Petitioner Requirements
When an employer wishes to transfer an alien employee working abroad to a U.S. company location
using the multinational executive or manager visa classification, a qualifying relationship must exist
between the foreign employer and the petitioning U.S. employer . A qualifying relationship exists when
the U.S. employer is an af filiate, parent, or subsidiary of the foreign firm, corporation, or other legal
entity .[11]
To establish a qualifying relationship under the statute and the regulations, the petitioner must show
that the beneficiary's foreign employer and the proposed U.S. employer are the same employer (for
example, a U.S. entity with a foreign of fice) or related as a parent and subsidiary or as af filiates. The
officer must examine the factors of ownership and control when determining whether a qualifying
relationship exists between the United States and foreign entities for purposes of this visa
classification.[12]
Either the foreign or U.S. entity must own and control the other entity or both must be subsidiaries
owned and controlled by the same parent entity or person.[13] In the context of this visa classification,
ownership refers to the direct or indirect legal right of possession of the assets of an entity with full
power and authority to control. Control means the direct or indirect legal right and authority to direct
the establishment, management, and operations of an entity .[14]
In situations where the petitioner has submitted documentation of a qualifying relationship based on
control through possession of proxy votes, the petitioner must show that the proxy votes are
irrevocable from the time of filing through the time of adjudication. Further , the petitioner must provide8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1184/2618