to include claims under the Safe Third Country Agreement, applications for suspension of deportation,
special rule cancellation of removal under NACARA  203, refugee case information, as well as refugee
and asylee relative information.
Disclosures may only be made to U.S. government of ficials or employees and U.S. federal or state
courts where there is a demonstrated need-to-know related to certain administrative, law enforcement,
and civil actions. Any other disclosure requires the written consent of the claimant or the express
permission of the Secretary of DHS.
3. USCIS Assistance
USCIS employees must not disclose information contained in, or pertaining to, any asylum or refugee
application or claim to any third party without the written consent of the applicant, except as permitted
by regulation or at the discretion of the Secretary of DHS.[38] 
This includes neither confirming nor denying that a particular person filed a protection claim by
submitting any of the following:
Form I-589 ;
Form I-590;
Form I-730 ;
A Request for a Safe Third Country Agreement Determination;
A Request for a Credible Fear Determination;
A Request for a Reasonable Fear Determination; and
Form I-881 .
USCIS employees should respond to inquiries related to Form I-589, Form I-881, requests for
information pertaining to the Safe Third Country Agreement, credible fear and reasonable fear
processes, Form I-590, and Form I-730 in dif ferent ways, depending on the inquiry:
Request for Disability Accommodation at an Upcoming Form I-589 Interview
Tier 2 staf f members may use the Service Request Management Tool (SRMT) to record and transfer
requests to the asylum of fice with jurisdiction over the pending application. The asylum of fice then
contacts the applicant to arrange for disability accommodation at the interview . While of ficers must not
confirm or deny the existence of a pending protection claim or NACARA  203 application, those making
disability accommodation requests for upcoming asylum interviews should be told that the request is
being recorded and will be forwarded to the appropriate of fice for follow-up.
Change of Address Request
Aliens can request a change of address by following the instructions on the How to Change Your
Address  webpage.[39]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 186/2618