Determining Public Charge Bond Amount
The purpose of the public charge bond is to hold the U.S. government harmless if an alien becomes a
public charge after adjusting to lawful permanent resident (LPR) status while the bond is in ef fect.
A public charge bond must be at least $1,000 and in such an amount that it will hold harmless[4] public
benefit agencies who are likely to provide the applicant with public cash assistance for income
maintenance or long-term institutionalization during the period in which the bond is in ef fect.[5]
However , USCIS determines the appropriate bond amount for each applicant on a case-by-case
basis. USCIS considers the same factors listed in 8 CFR 212.22(a)  when making a determination of
the bond amount. The stronger the likelihood that the applicant will become a public charge (in the
opinion of USCIS when considering these factors), the higher the bond amount.
The same factors considered as part of the public charge inadmissibility determination that rendered
the applicant more likely than not to become a public charge at any time in the future should guide the
determination of the public charge bond amount.
C. Requesting a Bond
If USCIS determines that giving the adjustment of status applicant the opportunity to submit a public
charge bond is warranted, as a matter of discretion,[6] USCIS will request the submission of the Public
Charge Bond ( Form I-945 ) by issuing a Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID). The NOID should discuss, at
a minimum, all of the following items:
That the alien has been found inadmissible on the public charge ground and the reason(s) why;
That USCIS decided to favorably exercise its discretion to allow the alien to have a public charge
bond submitted, which would permit, if accepted, the alien to adjust status to that of an LPR;
The public charge bond amount;
That the bond must be posted by submitting Form I-945 completed in accordance with the form’ s
instructions;
The due date, that is, by when Form I-945 must be submitted to (postmark date) USCIS;
The consequences for failure to respond to the notice and for the failure to submit Form I-945, in
accordance with the form’ s instructions. In particular , the NOID should specify that the public
charge bond will be rejected or deemed insuf ficient, and that the adjustment of status will be
denied, if the bond is not properly submitted in accordance with the instructions; and
Any additional information required to properly post the bond.
D. Assessing the Sufficiency of a Submitted Public Charge Bond
Once the public charge bond is submitted, USCIS should determine whether the bond was properly
completed as outlined in the form’ s instructions and the NOID, and that the appropriate bond amount
has been paid. The bond is not ef fective until USCIS accepts the bond.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2039/2618