The protections provided by 8 U.S.C. 1367  do not change which USCIS of fice has jurisdiction to
adjudicate a benefit request that a protected person has filed.
In instances where a protected person files a non-victim-based benefit request, the USCIS of fice that
has jurisdiction over that matter may still adjudicate the benefit request even though it contains
information about a protected person. Of ficers are not required to involve the USCIS of fices assigned
to adjudicate victim-based benefit requests in the adjudication of the non-victim-based benefit request.
[27]
The prohibition on adverse determinations described in 8 U.S.C. 1367(a)(1)  applies to  all cases where
a protected person is an applicant, beneficiary , or petitioner . Therefore, even if an of ficer is
adjudicating a non-victim-based application or petition (such as a Petition for Nonimmigrant W orker
(Form I-129 ), Petition for Alien Relative ( Form I-130 ), Immigrant Petition for Alien W orker ( Form I-140 ),
or Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 )), officers cannot make adverse determinations of
admissibility , deportability , or removability based solely on information provided by a prohibited source.
Officers can use information if that information can be located in, and sourced to, an independent,
non-prohibited source.[28]
Sending Notices to the Designated Safe Mailing Address or Preferred Mailing Address  
The designated safe mailing address or preferred mailing address may be the protected person’ s
home address, their attorney or accredited representative’ s address, their preparer ’s address, or any
other address listed on a form under the safe mailing address field or mailing address field.[29] If a
protected person designates a safe mailing address or provides a preferred mailing address in an
applicable field, USCIS sends original notices (including the notice containing the Arrival/Departure
Record (Form I-94)), correspondence, and secure identity documents to that address, unless the
person is represented and has a properly filed Form G-28  on record that requests USCIS send original
notices, the Form I-94, and secure identity documents to the attorney or accredited representative.[30]
In such a case, USCIS only sends courtesy copies of notices to the protected person at their
designated safe or preferred mailing address.
Sending Notices to Protected Persons on Subsequent, Concurrent, or Previous Filings  
Officers must review each form individually to determine where to send notices or secure identity
documents issued from an adjudication of that form. Of ficers should not rely on addresses contained
in prior filings, including any prior Form G ‑ 28 where representation does not extend to other forms,
when sending notices related to forms filed with, or after , the 8 U.S.C. 1367  filing. This guidance
applies to both the primary forms that are protected by 8 U.S.C. 1367 , as well as any related or
subsequent forms or requests submitted by a protected person, such as an Application for
Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ), Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card ( Form I-90 ),
or Form N-400 .8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 182/2618