Involuntary servitude may occur in circumstances where the victim has a preexisting relationship or
arrangement with the traf ficker . For example, involuntary servitude may occur in the context of a
domestic relationship (including parent-child, intimate partner , or roommate relationships). Involuntary
servitude can include, but is not limited to, domestic servitude and sexual exploitation. Whether the
conditions occurred in a domestic context or outside of the home is not in and of itself determinative of
whether involuntary servitude has occurred.
Conditions of servitude are defined by compulsory service or labor against a victim’ s will in a manner
that deprives the victim of liberty . Such conditions do not include scenarios in which:
The victim is free to quit or leave without incurring retribution or harm (or without fear of
retribution or harm);[23]
The victim can exercise significant control over their working conditions;[24] or
The victim continued working to avoid the ordinary financial, personal, or professional
consequences of quitting or leaving.[25]
Conditions of Servitude Induced by Domestic V iolence
Trafficking can occur alongside intimate partner abuse, and involuntary servitude and domestic
violence may coexist in some situations. In determining whether abuse or threats of abuse (including
physical violence, mental abuse, emotional abuse, sexual violence, intimidation, and controlling
behavior in the home) create a condition of involuntary servitude that constitutes a severe form of
trafficking in persons, of ficers should evaluate whether the situation involves:
Compelled or coerced labor or services; or 
Forced sexual activity .
Although domestic violence and traf ficking often intersect, not all work that occurs as the result of
domestic violence constitutes a condition of servitude. For example, in certain contexts, the unequal
assignment of household tasks among household members may signal an abusive relationship, but it
does not automatically constitute the creation of a condition of servitude.
Forced labor[26] compelled by domestic violence occurs where the aim of the domestic violence is to
force the victim to engage in labor that creates a condition of servitude. To distinguish between
domestic violence and labor traf ficking resulting from domestic violence, applicants must demonstrate
that the perpetrator ’s motivation or purpose is or was to subject the applicant to a condition of
servitude.
Officers may evaluate the actions the traf ficker has taken to maintain the applicant in a condition of
servitude, including recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, obtaining, patronization, or
solicitation, to further understand the goal of the perpetrator . Where traf ficking is accompanied and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 653/2618