on ownership of more than 50 percent is called de jure control.[3] However , it is possible for an owner
of 50 percent or less of a company to exercise de facto control over the organization.[4]
Large, established organizations may submit a statement by the entity’ s president, corporate attorney ,
corporate secretary , or other authorized of ficial describing the ownership and control of each qualifying
organization, accompanied by other evidence such as a copy of its most recent annual report, U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filings, or other documentation that lists the parent and its
subsidiaries.
In addition to a statement of an authorized of ficial regarding ownership and control of each qualifying
organization, organizations should submit other evidence of ownership and control, which may include
but is not limited to: records of stock ownership, partnership agreements, operating or LLC
agreements, member certificates, audited financial statements, profit and loss statements or other
accountant’ s reports, tax returns, or articles of incorporation, by-laws, and minutes of board meetings.
Not-for -profit Entities – Ownership and Control and Doing Business
Not-for-profit or nonprofit entities are eligible to use the L  classification if all requirements are met.[5]
These entities sometimes have dif ficulty demonstrating ownership and control, because their
ownership and organizational structure does not perfectly align with the for-profit entities that are more
commonly seen in the L  context. Often a non-profit will indicate that they have a branch relationship in
which they demonstrate that the employing entity is the same organization operating in another
location. However , there may be some regional or country-specific requirement that the entity register
as a separate entity .
In these cases, or any other claims of a qualifying relationship, ownership and control must be
established. In the case of a nonprofit, there may be no traditional evidence of ownership such as
equity certificates. Accordingly , to establish the existence of a qualifying relationship involving a
nonprofit organization, a petitioner must demonstrate that the relevant person, group, or entity owns or
manages suf ficient assets to directly or indirectly control both the U.S. and foreign entities involved.
Factors considered may include a person, entity , or group’ s obligation to fund capital needs of the
nonprofit, any rights to receive distribution of assets on liquidation, or any rights to direct how the
assets of the nonprofit may be used, purchased, or sold. Control of a nonprofit entity means the direct
or indirect legal right and authority to direct the establishment, management, and operation of the
nonprofit organization. In determining what constitutes ‘control’  with respect to nonprofit organizations,
USCIS takes into consideration the structure of the organization’ s management and governance
including the authority of the organization’ s senior of ficers, board members and trustees.
Generally , to demonstrate a qualifying relationship, non-profit petitioners may submit, as applicable,
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) filings, state filings, annual reports, and audited financial statements to
demonstrate the relevant relationship between entities. As applicable, petitioners may also submit
proof of a qualifying relationship by the submission of articles of incorporation or similar organizational8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 486/2618