Additionally , if the requestor has been deemed legally incompetent[23] by a court of law , then the
requestor ’s individual income is still used to determine household income. However , the income of any
household member , legal guardian or surrogate, or any other care provider , does not count towards
the calculation of household income for such requestors.
Documentation
To demonstrate household income at or below 150 percent of the FPG, the requestor may provide a
copy of one or more of the following, where applicable, for each household member:
Most recent federal tax return with signature (or transcript);[24]
Most recent W age and Tax Statement (IRS Form W -2);
Consecutive pay statements (stubs) for a minimum period of one month dated within the three
months preceding the receipt of the fee waiver request;
Certain Government Payments (Form 1099-G);
Form SSA-1099; or
Documentation of any additional financial assistance.[25]
An of ficer may grant a request for fee waiver in the absence of some of this documentation so long as
the available documentation supports that the requestor is more likely than not unable to pay the fee.
If the household member ’s income has changed since the tax return filing because of unemployment,
the requestor provides evidence of the household member ’s unemployment such as a termination
letter or unemployment insurance receipt. If the household member ’s income has changed since the
tax return filing due to a change in employment or change in income, the requestor provides
information on the current employment and income, such as recent pay statements (stubs) or Form
W-2.
If the household members reside and filed tax returns in a U.S. territory and were not required to file a
federal tax return, the requestor must submit the tax returns (or transcript) from the territory instead of
a federal tax return.
Tax Returns
A copy of the most recent tax return with signature alone may provide suf ficient proof of income for fee
waiver purposes. However , where the requestor provides other proof of income (or lack of income), a
request for fee waiver should not be rejected solely based on the absence of tax return(s). 
If the request for fee waiver is filed between January 1 and the deadline for filing income taxes for the
year, and the household member has not yet filed the previous year ’s income tax return, the requestor
may submit the household member ’s tax return (or transcript[26]) for the most recently filed year . The
requestor must certify by signing their fee waiver request that their income has not changed since the
most recently filed tax return. If the household member ’s income has changed since their most8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 230/2618