The SOC system is organized using numeric codes consisting of six digits. Each digit or group of
digits represents the level of similarity of positions. An occupation is not assigned to more than one
category at the lowest level of the classification (sixth digit).
For example, the SOC code for the detailed occupational classification of “web developer” is 15-1254
and is broken down as follows:
The first two digits (15) indicate the major group classification, which includes all computer and
mathematical occupations. Major Group 15-0000: Computer and Mathematical Occupations.
The third digit (1) indicates the minor group classification, which includes all computer
occupations. Minor Group 15-1200: Computer Occupations.
The fourth and fifth digits (25) indicate the broad occupation classification, which includes
software and web developers, programmers, and testers. Broad occupation 15-1250 Software
and W eb Developers, Programmers, and Testers.
The sixth digit (4) indicates the detailed occupation classification, which includes only web
developers. Detailed Occupation 15-1254: W eb Developers.
The SOC system classifies supervisors and managers of other workers distinctly . Supervisors of
workers in many major groups may be classified along with the workers they supervise. As such,
supervisors usually have work experience and perform activities similar to the workers they supervise.
[23]
Management Occupations (such as those primarily engaged in planning and directing) are generally
classified in a separate major group (Major Group 1 1-0000).[24] Persons classified in this major group
are generally managers of persons categorized in other major groups and their duties may include
supervision of such other persons.
For example, the SOC code 1 1-9041 is assigned to the detailed occupation Architectural and
Engineering Managers, which covers persons who “[p]lan, direct, or coordinate activities in such fields
as architecture and engineering or research and development in these fields.”[25] Under normal career
progression, a person in an occupation in any given major group may advance to a corresponding and
related occupation in the major group for managers.
In all cases, USCIS of ficers should review all relevant evidence when determining whether two jobs
are in the same or similar occupational classification(s) for purposes of INA  204(j) portability (see
above), to include SOC codes to compare the respective jobs as well as relevant information in
alternative resources.[26]
Determining Appropriate SOC Code
Determining the appropriate SOC codes for the relevant jobs depends on the type of petition filed on
behalf of the adjustment applicant:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1641/2618