a specific period to ensure the alien beneficiary qualifies for the classification sought, such as filing
before the age of 21 for certain children.[3]
A beneficiary of a family-based immigrant petition may concurrently file to adjust status in certain
circumstances.[4] For example, since immediate relatives are not subject to numerical limitations on
visa availability , an immediate relative beneficiary who is in the United States may file an Application to
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ) concurrently with the immigrant petition
or after it is approved.[5]  
Generally , family-based petitions must be filed with USCIS.[6] However , there are limited
circumstances where the U.S. Department of State (DOS) may accept and adjudicate Form I-130.
USCIS no longer accepts and adjudicates routine Form I-130 petitions at its international field of fices.
A. When the U.S. Department of State is Authorized to Accept and Adjudicate Form I-
130
USCIS has delegated[7] authority to DOS to accept and adjudicate a clearly approvable Form I-130
filed abroad by a U.S. citizen petitioner for an immediate relative[8] if the petitioner establishes
exceptional circumstances or falls under blanket authorization criteria defined by USCIS.[9] A clearly
approvable petition is generally one that includes suf ficient primary evidence to establish the status of
the petitioner and the qualifying relationship.[10] This policy applies even in countries with a USCIS
presence. Without such delegation, DOS has no authority to permit a U.S. embassy or consulate to
accept a local Form I-130 filing abroad.
If a consular of ficer in a U.S. embassy or consulate encounters an individual case that the of ficer
believes  needs immediate processing of a Form I-130 filed by a U.S. citizen petitioner for an
immediate relative, the consular of ficer may , but is not required to, accept the local filing in exceptional
circumstances, in accordance with the guidance below . If DOS accepts a petition, USCIS must receive
notice of the filing and information about the basis for local acceptance.
1. Exceptional Circumstances
Examples of exceptional circumstances include, but are not limited to:
Military emergencies – A U.S. citizen military service member petitioner , who is abroad but who
does not fall under the blanket authorization for U.S. citizen service members stationed abroad
on military bases, becomes aware of a new deployment or transfer with little notice. This
exception generally applies in cases where the U.S. citizen service member is provided with
exceptionally less notice than normally expected.
Medical emergencies – A petitioner or alien beneficiary is facing an urgent medical emergency
that requires immediate travel.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1063/2618