The home study preparer must assess the P AP’s ability to financially support adopted children.[23]
Any income designated for the support of children in the P AP’s care (such as foster care subsidies), or
any income designated for the support of another member of the household, cannot be counted
towards the financial resources available for the support of the prospective adoptive children. In
addition, financial contributions from other family members (such as AMHs) cannot be counted
towards the P AP’s financial resources.
2. Required Home Study Content
The home study must include:
A description of the P AP’s income, financial resources, debts, and expenses;
A statement summarizing the evidence the home study preparer considered in verifying the
PAP’s financial resources; and
An assessment of the P AP’s financial suitability .
H. Physical, Medical, Emotional, and Behavioral Health
1. Required Assessment
The home study preparer must assess the physical, mental, emotional, and behavioral health of all
household members (the P AP, any AMH, and any children in the home).[24]
2. Required Home Study Content
The home study must include the following as it relates to all household members:
A general description of their current physical, mental, emotional, and behavioral health; and
A description of any history of illness or mental, emotional, psychological, or behavioral instability
that may adversely impact the suitability of the home.[25]
I. Criminal History and History of Abuse or V iolence
1. Required Assessment
The home study provider must assess if any household member (P AP, AMH, or children in the home)
has a criminal history or history of abuse or violence as an of fender .[26] USCIS considers someone to
have a history of abuse or violence even if it only happened once, and even if the incident did not
result in an arrest or conviction. The home study preparer must assess the history of all types of
abuse, violence, or criminal history as an of fender , including:
Child abuse (including neglect and unregulated custody transfer);
Sexual abuse;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 909/2618