DOS cut-of f date in the V isa Bulletin applicable to the applicant’ s preference category and
country of chargeability in ef fect on the date the applicant filed the renewal application.
The spouse and children of a principal applicant may apply to renew employment authorization if the
qualifying relationship exists both at the time of filing and adjudication, and the principal applicant’ s
renewal application has been approved. The spouse and children may apply concurrently with the
principal applicant, but their applications cannot be approved until after the principal applicant’ s
application has been approved.
Neither the principal applicant nor their spouse or children need to be in a valid nonimmigrant status
when seeking renewal of employment authorization based on compelling circumstances.
If approved, a renewal of the compelling circumstances-based EAD is valid for 1 year . The validity
period of a spouse or child’ s compelling circumstances-based EAD may not exceed the principal
applicant’ s approval period.
F. Period of Authorized Stay
USCIS considers an applicant with a valid EAD based on compelling circumstances to be in a period
of authorized stay by the Secretary of Homeland Security . In addition, USCIS considers the time
during which the EAD application was pending to be a period of authorized stay . Therefore, the
applicant generally does not accrue unlawful presence during the validity period of the EAD or during
the pendency of a timely filed non-frivolous application.[11]
An alien who departs the United States to apply for a nonimmigrant or immigrant visa at a consular
post abroad while working using the compelling circumstances-based employment authorization does
not trigger the unlawful presence grounds of inadmissibility , as long as the alien is not subject to those
grounds of inadmissibility from other circumstances.[12]
As noted above, a period of authorized stay is distinguishable from nonimmigrant status. Individuals
who are in a period of authorized stay but are not in a nonimmigrant status may therefore, depending
on the facts, be ineligible for a change or adjustment of status for failing to maintain a lawful status.[13]
However , individuals in an authorized period of stay do not accrue unlawful presence, so they may
subsequently leave the United States to apply for an immigrant or nonimmigrant visa at a consular
post abroad, without triggering the unlawful presence grounds of inadmissibility (as long as they have
not otherwise accrued periods of unlawful presence).[14]
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 204.5(p) .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2225/2618