B. W aiver of Interview
All adjustment of status applicants must be interviewed by an of ficer unless the interview is waived by
USCIS.[2] The decision to waive the interview should be made on a case-by-case basis.[3] The
interview enables USCIS to verify important information about the applicant to determine eligibility for
adjustment. For family-based applications, USCIS generally requires the Form I-130 petitioner to
appear for the interview with the principal adjustment of status applicant. In addition, derivatives are
also required to appear regardless of the immigrant visa category .
C. Adjudication
The following table provides a step-by-step overview of an INA  245(i) adjudication.
Step-by-Step Overview of Adjudication of INA  245(i) Adjustment Application
Step 1Determine that the applicant is either:
A grandfathered alien (whether a principal or derivative beneficiary),
including verifying that the qualifying immigrant visa petition or permanent
labor certification application was properly filed on or before April 30, 2001
and was approvable when filed; or
The current spouse or child accompanying (or following to join) a
grandfathered alien.
Step 2If the qualifying petition or application was filed after January 14, 1998, verify
that the grandfathered principal beneficiary was physically present in the United
States on December 21, 2000.
Step 3 Verify the applicant has paid the $1,000 sum (unless exempt).
Step 4 Determine that the applicant is otherwise eligible to adjust under 245(i).
Step 5Determine that the applicant is eligible for an immigrant visa in the family-
based, employment-based, special immigrant, or diversity visa immigrant
category (whether or not based on the qualifying petition or application).
Step 6Determine that an immigrant visa is immediately available for the applicant’ s
underlying immigrant category .[4]
Step 7Determine that the applicant is admissible to the United States or is eligible for
a waiver of inadmissibility or other form of relief.
Step 8 Determine that the applicant merits the favorable exercise of discretion.
D. Decision8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1633/2618