[^ 39]  See 8 CFR 214.2(f)(18)(ii)  and 8 CFR 214.2(m)(19)(ii) .
Chapter 4 - School Transfer
A. F-1 Students
An F-1 student who is maintaining status must notify the Designated School Of ficial (DSO) at the
student’ s current school of the request to transfer to another school certified by the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement’ s (ICE) Student and Exchange V isitor Program (SEVP).[1] The F-1 student
may start a transfer during the 60-day grace period following completion of the student’ s studies since
the student is considered to be maintaining status during this grace period. 
An F-1 student who did not pursue a full course of study at the school the student was last authorized
to attend is ineligible for school transfer and must apply for reinstatement,[2] or alternatively , may
depart the country and return as an initial entry in a new F-1 nonimmigrant status.[3]
The Student and Exchange V isitor Information System (SEVIS) transfer procedures allow an F-1
student to transfer between SEVP-certified schools at the same educational level or move between
educational levels, such as progressing from high school to a bachelor ’s program or a bachelor ’s
program to a master ’s program.[4]
1. Students Who Are Not Pursuing a Full Course of Study
With the exception of those who are authorized by the DSO to take less than a full load for valid
academic, medical, or hardship reasons, DHS considers any student who is not pursuing a full course
of study at the school the student is authorized to attend to be out of status. Such a student may not
transfer to a dif ferent school without first requesting reinstatement.
While the request for reinstatement is pending, and if classes are in session, the student should be
enrolled in school as the student will have to abide by the terms of the F-1 status as of the date of
reinstatement, including being enrolled on a full time basis.[5] While there is no appeal of a denial of
the application for reinstatement, a student may file a motion to reopen or reconsider according to the
instructions on the USCIS denial notice. Otherwise, the student must depart the United States upon
notification of the denial by USCIS.
2. Five-Month Limit
When transferring between schools or programs, a student may not remain in the United States
unless the student is able to resume classes at the transfer school or program within 5 months of
transferring out of the current school, or within 5 months of the program completion date as indicated
on the Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status ( Form I-20 ) issued by the current8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 391/2618