other filing requirements are met, including payment of the required fee, USCIS may accept the
resubmitted benefit request.
If USCIS accepts a request for adjudication and later determines that it has a deficient signature,
USCIS denies the request. If USCIS needs additional information to confirm that a person[4] is
authorized to sign on behalf of another person, corporation, or other legal entity , USCIS may issue
either a Request for Evidence (RFE) or a Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) to confirm that such
signature authority existed at the time the document was submitted.
If USCIS issues a denial based on a deficient signature or unauthorized power of attorney (POA), the
benefit requestor retains any motion and appeal rights associated with the applicable form.[5]
B. Valid Signature
A valid signature consists of any handwritten mark or sign made by a person to signify the following:
The person knows of the content of the request and any supporting documents;
The person has reviewed and approves of any information contained in such request and any
supporting documents; and
The person certifies under penalty of perjury that the request and any other supporting
documents are true and correct.
A valid signature does not need to be legible or in English, and may be abbreviated as long as this is
consistent with how the person signing normally signs his or her name. A valid signature does not
have to be in cursive handwriting. A person may use an “X” or similar mark as his or her signature. A
signature is valid even if the original signature on the document is photocopied, scanned, faxed, or
similarly reproduced. Regardless of how it is transmitted to USCIS, the copy must be of an original
document containing an original handwritten signature, unless otherwise specified. The regulations do
not require that the person signing submit an “original” or “wet ink” signature on a petition, application,
or other request to USCIS.
When determining whether a signature is acceptable, of ficers should review any applicable
regulations, form instructions, and policy to ensure that the signature on a particular benefit request is
proper . USCIS does not accept signatures created by a typewriter , word processor , stamp, auto-pen,
or similar device.
For benefit requests filed electronically as permitted by form instructions, USCIS accepts signatures in
an electronic format. Benefit requestors must follow the instructions provided to properly sign
electronically .[6]
Acceptable and Unacceptable Signatures
Acceptable Unacceptable8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 211/2618