In order for USCIS to consider a Form N-648  sufficient, the medical professional must, at a minimum:
Conduct an examination of the alien;
Identify and describe each disability or impairment that af fects the alien’ s ability to meet the
English or civics requirements on Form N-648 ;
Explain how each disability or impairment prevents the alien from learning or demonstrating
knowledge of English, civics, or both;
Attest that the disability or impairment has lasted or is expected to last at least 12 months; and
Attest that the cause of the disability or impairment is not related to the illegal use of drugs.
The medical professional should complete the Form N-648  using common terminology that a person
without medical training can understand. While staf f associated with the medical professional may
assist in completing the form, the medical professional alone is responsible for providing the
necessary information, answering the questions, and verifying and attesting to the accuracy of the
form’ s content. If information is missing from the Form N-648, the of ficer should review any extra
documents provided by the medical professional to determine if the information completes the Form
N-648. If the missing information is not present on the additional documentation, the of ficer must reject
the Form N-648 as insuf ficient.
The medical professional certifying the form may choose to provide additional information as
attachments to the Form N-648 to support the claim of disability . Any supporting documentation should
be relevant, probative, and credible to establish that the medical disability or impairment prevents the
alien from completing the English and civics requirements.
Telehealth Examination
USCIS may accept a Form N-648  certified by an authorized medical professional who completed the
alien’ s medical examination through a telehealth examination.[18] The medical professional must be
licensed. In conducting telehealth examinations, medical professionals must adhere to the respective
state telehealth laws and requirements, otherwise USCIS may request a new Form N-648. After a
telehealth examination, the alien should ensure all signatures are present and then submit the Form
N-648 to USCIS.
G. Review of Medical Certification
1. General Review Guidelines
The of ficer must carefully review the form for suf ficiency[19] to determine whether the alien is eligible
for the exception. The tables below provide general guidelines on what steps the of ficer should and
should not take when reviewing the Form N-648 . The alien has the burden of proof by the
“preponderance of the evidence” standard.[20] The form must be reviewed based on the totality of
evidence in the record to assess eligibility .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2376/2618