their residence during such time abroad. Such applicants are subject to the physical presence
requirement.[5]
Only applicants who are employed by or under contract with the U.S. government may be exempt
from the physical presence requirements. All other applicants who are eligible to preserve their
residence remain subject to the physical presence requirement.
The applicant’ s spouse and dependent unmarried sons and daughters, included in the application, are
entitled to the same benefits for the period during which they were residing abroad with the applicant.
[6]
2. Employee of Certain Media Organizations Abroad
An applicant for naturalization employed by a U.S. incorporated nonprofit communications media
organization that disseminates information significantly promoting United States interests abroad, that
is so recognized by the Secretary of Homeland Security , is exempt from the continuous residence and
physical presence requirements if:
The applicant files the application for naturalization while still employed, or within six months of
termination of employment;
The applicant has been continuously employed with the organization for at least five years after
becoming an LPR;
The applicant is within the United States at the time of naturalization; and
The applicant declares a good faith intention to take up residence within the United States
immediately upon termination of employment.[7]
3. Employed as an Interpreter , Translator , or Security-Related Position (Executive or Manager)
[8]
Time Abroad as Continuous Residence and Physical Presence in the United States
An applicant’ s time employed abroad by , or under contract with, the Chief of Mission (Department of
State) or by the U.S. armed forces as an interpreter , translator , or in a security-related position in an
executive or managerial capacity[9] does not break any period for which continuous residence or
physical presence in the United States is required for naturalization. The period abroad under such
employment is treated as a period of residence and physical presence in the United States for
naturalization purposes.
This benefit commonly referred to as the “section 1059(e)” provision only applies to the continuous
residence and physical presence naturalization requirements. Applicants must still meet all other
requirements for naturalization. The applicant has the responsibility of providing all documentation to
establish eligibility .[10]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2344/2618