USCIS OI makes every ef fort to maintain the confidentiality of informational sources to protect the
integrity of the investigation. However , for investigations in which an allegation is substantiated and
disciplinary action is proposed, the subject of such investigation is entitled to review documentation
and evidence relied upon as the basis for the proposed action.
OI refers matters to DHS OIG for review and investigative determination as required, depending on
the nature of the allegations included in the report. If the allegation either does not meet the criteria for
referral to DHS OIG or is not accepted by DHS OIG for investigation, OI may resolve the matter by
conducting an investigation; referring the matter for an of ficial management inquiry , if appropriate; or
referring the matter to the appropriate USCIS manager for information and action deemed appropriate.
As a matter of procedure, OI does not provide a complainant, victim, witness, or subject of a complaint
with the investigative determination of a complaint, since a disclosure of this nature could adversely
impact the investigative process or agency resolution of the alleged behavior .
D. Allegations of Discrimination
1. Anti-Discrimination Policy
USCIS does not tolerate discriminatory treatment of any persons. USCIS considers discrimination to
include the unlawful treatment of a person or group of persons based on classes or other categories to
which they belong or are perceived to belong. It also includes retaliation against a person who reports
or complains about discrimination, or who participates in the investigation of a discrimination
complaint. It is USCIS policy to treat the public in a non-discriminatory manner regardless of whether
they belong to a class or group specifically protected under federal anti-discrimination laws or other
legal authorities.
USCIS policy on anti-discrimination is not limited to specific classes or groups. This policy prohibits
discrimination by any USCIS employee[9] towards any benefit requestor ,[10] other USCIS employee,
or anyone else with whom USCIS employees interact by virtue of their work for USCIS.
In addition to training employees on the administration of immigration benefits, USCIS provides
agency-wide training on USCIS’  anti-discrimination policy to all employees who interact directly or
indirectly with members of the public.
2. Reporting Discrimination
Benefit requestors and other interested parties should report allegations of discrimination, including
those based on race, ethnicity , national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or disability , promptly to
a USCIS supervisor or to DHS CRCL; allegations may also be reported to USCIS OI or DHS OIG.[11]
Individuals may report allegations of discrimination involving physical assault (such as grabbing,
fondling, hitting, or shoving) to OI or DHS OIG.[12] USCIS employees also have a duty to report8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 202/2618