The U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet contains information for naturalized citizens. Before distributing
the packet, of ficers must:
Make a statement that an applicant does not become a U.S. citizen until they take the Oath of
Allegiance, regardless of the contents of the packet;
Make a general statement about the contents of the packet; and
Answer the candidates’  naturalization-related questions.
3. The American Flag
Officers distribute the American flag to naturalization candidates. Only USCIS-issued flags made in the
United States may be distributed to naturalization candidates.
4. Citizen’ s Almanac and Pocket-size U.S. Declaration of Independence and Constitution
The Citizen’ s Almanac ( Form M-76 ) and the Pocket-size Declaration of Independence and
Constitution of the United States (Form M-654) must be made available to all interested naturalization
candidates or newly naturalized citizens at the:
Check-in process;
 Conclusion of the oath ceremony program; or
Conclusion of the naturalization examination.
Officers are not required to distribute these publications to each naturalization candidate, but must
make the publications available. The items may be placed on a table in an area accessible to the
naturalization candidates. USCIS may also inform candidates that both publications are available for
download at uscis.gov/citizenship .
5. Other Materials
USCIS field of fice leadership must consult with the USCIS Of fice of the Chief Counsel’ s Ethics
Division to determine whether materials and publications other than the American flag and the
contents of the U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet are appropriate for distribution. Federal workers,
including of ficers, and other invited participants, whether governmental or nongovernmental, must
never distribute the following within the venue where the USCIS naturalization ceremony is taking
place, or anywhere within a federal facility or on federal property:
Partisan publications;
Publications referencing a specific political group;
Commercial materials or publications;
Religious materials or publications; or
Any promotional or solicitation materials or publications.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2581/2618