This type of evidence can be a positive factor indicating a person is among the small percentage
at the top of the person’ s field.
In all cases, the petitioner must provide suf ficient context regarding the above evidence and
considerations to demonstrate that the evidence meets the relevant criteria and to establish the
person’ s extraordinary ability in the totality of the circumstances. This means that the petitioner must
explain the significance of the submitted evidence, and how it demonstrates that the person has
achieved sustained national or international acclaim and recognition in their field of expertise.
While a person may be stronger in one particular evidentiary area than in others, the totality of the
evidence must establish that the person is extraordinary . If the of ficer determines that the petitioner
has failed to demonstrate eligibility , the of ficer should not merely make general assertions regarding
this failure. Rather , the of ficer must articulate the specific reasons as to why the of ficer concluded that
the petitioner has not demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that the person has
extraordinary ability .[50] As with all adjudications, if an of ficer believes that the facts stated in the
petition are not true, and can articulate why in the denial, then the of ficer denies the petition and
explains the reasons in the written denial.
If requesting additional evidence is appropriate, of ficers should provide some explanation of the
deficiencies in the evidence already submitted and, if possible, examples of persuasive evidence that
the petitioner might provide to corroborate the statements made in the petition. If a petitioner has
submitted evidence that the petitioner believes establishes the person's extraordinary ability , merely
restating the evidentiary requirements or stating that the evidence submitted is insuf ficient does not
clarify to the petitioner how to overcome the deficiencies.
With respect to demonstrating extraordinary ability in athletics, USCIS considers a male athlete who
has been competing against women to be a negative factor in determining whether the alien is among
the small percentage at the very top of the field.[51]
3. Other Evidentiary Considerations
Letters of Support
Many petitions to classify a person with extraordinary ability contain letters of support. Letters of
support, while not without weight, should not form the cornerstone of a successful claim for this
classification. Rather , the statements made by the witnesses should be corroborated by documentary
evidence in the record. The letters should explain in specific terms why the witnesses believe the
beneficiary to be of the caliber of a person with extraordinary ability . Letters that merely reiterate
USCIS’  definitions relating to this classification or make general and expansive statements regarding
the beneficiary and the beneficiary’ s accomplishments are generally not persuasive.
The relationship or af filiation between the beneficiary and the witness is also a factor the of ficer should
consider when evaluating the significance of witnesses’  statements. It is generally expected that one8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1164/2618