While an applicant may have only submitted a Notice of Action (Form I-797) with his or her adjustment
application that referenced the underlying petition, the petition itself should be contained within the A-
file and must be reviewed prior to adjudicating the adjustment application. As a matter of procedure,
any underlying petition is typically ordered prior to any interview and before final adjudication of Form
I-485 . 
There may be instances in which an adjustment applicant’ s file is sent forward to the adjudicating
officer prior to locating the petition. In this case, the of ficer should hold the final adjudication of the
adjustment application in abeyance in order to locate the underlying petition and then verify that the
petition is still valid and the applicant remains eligible for the classification.
There may be instances where a petition is lost. For example, there may be proof the petition was filed
but USCIS cannot locate the petition, and the petition was not forwarded to the National V isa Center . If
a petition is lost, the applicant must recreate the petition at no additional fee. The of ficer then verifies
the underlying basis of adjustment or adjudicates the replacement petition if the original was still
pending. A recreated petition retains the same priority date as the original lost petition.
Security Checks and National Security Concerns
USCIS conducts background checks on all applicants for adjustment of status to enhance national
security and protect the integrity of the immigration process by ensuring that USCIS grants lawful
permanent resident status only to those applicants eligible for the requested benefit. The of ficer must
ensure that all security checks are completed, unexpired, and resolved as necessary prior to
adjudicating an adjustment application. 
In general, a national security concern exists when a person or organization has been determined to
have a link to past, current, or planned involvement in an activity or organization involved in terrorism,
espionage, sabotage, or the illegal transfer of goods, technology , or sensitive information.[2]
B. Determine Ongoing Eligibility
After determining the classification requested, the of ficer should review all the eligibility requirements
for that particular classification to ensure the applicant remains eligible. As with all applications, an
applicant must remain eligible for adjustment of status from the time of filing through final adjudication.
[3]
If an underlying immigrant visa petition provides the basis for adjustment and has already been
approved, the of ficer should confirm that a valid qualifying relationship continues to exist in a family-
based case or that a qualifying job of fer still exists in an employment-based case. While specific
family-based, employment-based, and special immigrant considerations are covered in detail in other
parts of this volume, the of ficer should note that changes to marital status or age-out issues may
impact family-based or derivative cases just as changes in employment, withdrawal of a job of fer, or
the failure of a petitioner ’s business may af fect employment-based cases. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1456/2618