Section 318 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) requires a naturalization applicant to show
that they have been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence in accordance with
all applicable provisions of the INA  in ef fect at the time of admission or adjustment.[1] This requirement
applies to the applicant’ s initial admission as a lawful permanent resident (LPR) or adjustment to LPR
status. Of ficers do not review subsequent reentries in determining whether there was a lawful
admission.[2] The applicant generally must make this showing at the time they file the naturalization
application. If the LPR status was not lawfully obtained for any reason, regardless of whether there
was any fraud or willful misrepresentation by the applicant, the applicant is ineligible for naturalization
even if the applicant was admitted as an LPR and possesses a Permanent Resident Card (PRC)
(Form I-551).[3]
In order for the applicant to establish that he or she was lawfully admitted for permanent residence,
the applicant must have met all the requirements for admission as an immigrant for adjustment of
status.[4] An applicant is not lawfully admitted for permanent residence in accordance with all
applicable provisions of the INA  if his or her LPR status was obtained by fraud, willful
misrepresentation, or if the admission was otherwise not in compliance with the law .[5] Any such
applicant is ineligible for naturalization in accordance with INA  318.
2. Conditional Permanent Residents
A conditional permanent resident (CPR) filing for naturalization on the basis of his or her permanent
resident status for 5 years (or 3 years for spouses of U.S. citizens) must have met all of the applicable
requirements of the conditional residence provisions. CPRs are generally not eligible for naturalization
unless the conditions on their permanent resident status have been removed because such CPRs
have not been lawfully admitted for permanent residence in accordance with all applicable provisions
of the INA.[6] However , there are certain exceptions,[7] and under certain circumstances, an of ficer
may adjudicate a Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence ( Form I-751 ) during a naturalization
proceeding.[8]
If the record indicates that the alien spouse was admitted or adjusted as a spouse of a U.S. citizen
married less than 2 years at the time of admission (CR-1 or CR-6), but should have been admitted or
adjusted as a spouse of a U.S. citizen married more than 2 years at the time of admission (IR-1 or IR-
6), the of ficer may update his or her spouse’ s class of admission code accordingly . The erroneous
classification of the alien spouse as a CR-1 or CR-6 instead of an IR-1 or IR-6 does not render this or
her admission or adjustment unlawful. In addition, the applicant would be eligible for naturalization
even if a Form I-751 was not filed or approved.
If the record indicates that the alien spouse was admitted or adjusted as a spouse of a U.S. citizen
married more than 2 years at the time of admission (IR-1 or IR-6), but should have been admitted or
adjusted as a spouse of a U.S. citizen married less than 2 years at the time of admission (CR-1 or CR-
6), the of ficer should request the submission of Form I-751 and adjudicate Form I-751 before8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2301/2618