Congress next enacted the Immigration Marriage Fraud Amendments of 1986 (IMF A) with the goal of
deterring immigration-related marriage fraud.[13] IMFA’s key provision stipulated that aliens who obtain
immigrant status based on a marriage existing for less than 2 years be granted lawful permanent
residence initially on a conditional basis. This conditional status may be converted to full permanent
resident status after 2 years, generally upon a showing that the conditional resident and his or her
U.S. citizen spouse entered into the marriage in good faith and continued to share a life together .
4. Immigration Act of 1990
Congress made the most sweeping changes to the original INA  by passing the Immigration Act of
1990 (IMMACT  90).[14] Key provisions adopted by IMMACT  90 include:
Significantly increased the worldwide quota limits on permanent immigration from 290,000 to
675,000 per year (plus up to another 125,000 for refugees);
Established separate preference categories for family-based and employment-based
immigration, including moving several special immigrant categories into the employment-based
preferences and adding a new category for immigrant investors;
Established the Diversity V isa Program, making immigrant visas available to randomly selected
aliens coming from countries with historically low rates of immigration;
Created several new nonimmigrant work visa categories: O, P , Q, and R; and
Reorganized and expanded the types of qualitative bars to U.S. entry , known as inadmissibility
or exclusion grounds.
Congress continued to refine the U.S. immigration system by enacting two laws in 1996, the
Antiterrorism and Ef fective Death Penalty Act[15] and the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA),[16] which in part were intended to improve border control, expand
worksite enforcement of the employer sanctions program, and enhance removal of criminal and other
deportable aliens. These laws also introduced the concept of unlawful presence as an exclusion
ground, expanded the definition of aggravated felon, and eliminated or greatly restricted the scope of
judicial review involving certain administrative actions and decisions by U.S. immigration authorities. 
5. Other Adjustment of Status Provisions
Over the years, Congress has created several adjustment programs otherwise dif ferent from general
adjustment that apply to relatively small numbers of aliens who meet highly particularized
criteria. Most of these programs are found in laws that are not part of the INA.
C. Legal Authorities[17]
INA 245; 8 CFR 245  – Adjustment of status of nonimmigrant to that of person admitted
for permanent residence
INA 209; 8 CFR 209  – Adjustment of status of refugees8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1433/2618