certification that is based on reliable tribal records, birth certificates, and other documents establishing
the requisite percentage of Indian blood.
The Canadian Certificate of Indian Status (Form IA-1395) issued by the Canadian government[7]
specifies the tribal af filiation but does not indicate percentage of Indian blood. Membership in an
Indian tribe or First Nation in Canada does not necessarily require Indian blood.
An alien is not eligible for permanent residence if tribal membership comes through marriage or
adoption.
For additional information on how to request creation of a record and proof of permanent residence,
see the Green Card for an American Indian Born in Canada  web page.
5. Decision
Approval
Upon establishing that the claimant is an American Indian born in Canada, with at least 50 percent
American Indian blood, who has maintained residence in the United States since his or her last entry ,
the claimant is entitled to creation of a record of admission for lawful permanent residence, even if
technically inadmissible or previously deported.[8] USCIS issues a PRC accordingly . A claimant is not
required to file any application or pay any fees as part of this process.
If DHS records show that the claimant has already been accorded creation of a record of admission
for lawful permanent residence and issued a PRC, an of ficer should advise the applicant that he or
she must file an Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card ( Form I-90 ), and pay the filing fee
required.[9]
Denial
If the claimant is unable to prove that he or she is an American Indian born in Canada, with at least 50
percent American Indian blood, or prove residency since the last entry , the of ficer must deny the
request and provide a written explanation of the reasons of the denial.[10] There is no appeal from the
decision, although the claimant may renew his or her request if and when he or she is able to
overcome the basis of the decision. Depending on the circumstances, such a claimant may be
referred for consideration of initiation of removal proceedings.
B. Reserved
[Reserved]
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1856/2618