The presence of one or more of the factors below in a particular case does not mean that extreme
hardship would necessarily result from a denial of admission. But they are factors that may be
encountered and should be considered in their totality and cumulatively in individual cases. All
hardship factors presented by the applicant should be considered in the totality of the circumstances in
making the extreme hardship determination.
Some of the factors listed below apply when the qualifying relative would remain in the United States
without the applicant. Other factors apply when the qualifying relative would relocate abroad. Some of
the factors might apply under either circumstance.
Factors and Considerations for Extreme Hardship
Factors Considerations
Family T ies and
ImpactQualifying relative’ s ties to family members living in the United
States, including age, status, and length of residence of any
children.
Responsibility for the care of any family members in the United
States, particularly children, elderly adults, and disabled adults.
The qualifying relative’ s ties, including family ties, to the country of
relocation, if any .
Nature of relationship between the applicant and the qualifying
relative, including any facts about the particular relationship that
would either aggravate or lessen the hardship resulting from
separation.
Qualifying relative’ s age.
Length of qualifying relative’ s residence in the United States.
Length of qualifying relative’ s prior residence in the country of
relocation, if any .
Prior or current military service of qualifying relative.
Impact on the cognitive, social, or emotional well-being of a
qualifying relative who is left to replace the applicant as caregiver for
someone else, or impact on the qualifying relative (for example, child
or parent) for whom such care is required.
Social and Cultural
ImpactLoss of access to the U.S. courts and the criminal justice system,
including the loss of opportunity to request or provide testimony in
criminal investigations or prosecutions; to participate in proceedings
to enforce labor , employment, or civil rights laws; to participate in
family law proceedings, victim’ s compensation proceedings, or other8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2125/2618