The spouse, child,[15] and unmarried son or daughter of a Liberian principal applicant who is LRIF-
eligible may also seek adjustment based on LRIF regardless of their nationality .[16]
To adjust based on LRIF , eligible family members must:
Properly file an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 )
which is received on or by December 20, 2021; and
Be admissible to the United States for lawful permanent residence or eligible for a waiver of
inadmissibility or other form of relief.
The same ineligibility criteria and inadmissibility grounds that apply to Liberian principal applicants
apply to eligible family members seeking adjustment based on LRIF .
However , the continuous physical presence requirement that applies to Liberian principal applicants
does not apply to those seeking to adjust based on LRIF as an eligible family member .
When Eligible Family Members May File the Adjustment Application
Each applicant must properly file his or her own adjustment application, which must be received by
USCIS on or by December 20, 2021.
Eligible family members may file their adjustment application:
Together with the Liberian principal applicant’ s LRIF-based adjustment application; or
After the Liberian principal applicant filed an LRIF-based adjustment application that remains
pending a final decision or was approved by USCIS.
An eligible family member may not adjust status before the qualifying Liberian principal applicant.
Adjustment of family members must be concurrent with or subsequent to the Liberian principal
applicant’ s adjustment to LPR status.[17]
The qualifying relationship may have been created before or after the Liberian principal applicant’ s
adjustment. Provided that the applicant meets the burden of proof to demonstrate a bona fide family
relationship, USCIS may adjust the spouse (or child or unmarried son or daughter) of a Liberian
principal applicant to that of an LPR regardless of the duration of the relationship; however , the
relationship must exist on the date of filing and the date of adjudication of the family member ’s
adjustment application.
The spouse, child, or unmarried son or daughter remains eligible for LRIF-based adjustment only so
long as the qualifying Liberian national remains an LPR. If the Liberian national loses LPR status or
naturalizes, the family members’  eligibility to adjust to LPR status under LRIF also ends.[18]
5. Sunset Date8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1860/2618