[^ 48]  See 8 CFR 216.4(c)(4) .
Chapter 4 - Joint Petitions and Individual Filing Requests
A. Joint Petitions
When the conditional permanent resident (CPR) spouse is still married to the same U.S. citizen or
lawful permanent resident (petitioning spouse), the spouses file a Petition to Remove Conditions on
Residence ( Form I-751 ) jointly . A CPR child who cannot be included on the child’ s CPR parent’ s Form
I-751 files a separate Form I-751 jointly with the petitioning stepparent.
A CPR and the petitioning spouse must jointly file Form I-751 within the 90-day period immediately
preceding the second anniversary of the CPR receiving CPR status.[1] The one exception to this rule
applies to CPRs and petitioning spouses overseas on military or government orders. The statute
suspends the 90-day period during any period of time in which the CPR or the petitioning spouse is
overseas on military or government orders.[2]
In a joint petition, the CPR and petitioning spouse or stepparent must establish that a qualifying, bona
fide marriage exists and must submit evidence to show that the marriage was entered into in good
faith and not to evade U.S. immigration laws.[3]
USCIS may not deny a joint petition solely because the spouses are separated or have initiated
divorce or annulment proceedings. If all other eligibility requirements are met and both the CPR and
petitioning spouse or stepparent appear for an interview (if requested by USCIS), USCIS approves the
joint petition. However , if the divorce or annulment is finalized while the joint petition is pending, the
CPR is no longer eligible to remove conditions using the joint petition. However , the CPR may request
that USCIS amend the joint petition to a waiver based on divorce.[4]
If the joint petition does not contain suf ficient evidence to establish eligibility , USCIS may issue a
Request for Evidence (RFE) or schedule an interview or both.[5]
B. Deceased Petitioning Spouse
The death of a petitioning spouse after the CPR obtains permanent resident status excuses the
general requirement that a Form I-751  must be a joint petition. If the petitioning spouse dies after the
CPR obtained CPR status, the CPR may file the Form I-751 individually without having to qualify for a
waiver of the joint filing requirement.[6] Such a filing is considered an individual filing request, not a
waiver . A CPR child who cannot be included on the CPR parent’ s Form I-751 may file a separate Form
I-751 as an individual filing request based on the death of the petitioning stepparent.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1382/2618