Regional Center -Based Petitions Filed on or after May 14, 2022
As of May 14, 2022, regional centers file a Form I-965F  with USCIS before a regional center investor
may file an individual petition.
6. Guidance on T enant Occupancy Methodology
As of May 15, 2018, USCIS rescinded its prior guidance on tenant occupancy methodology . That
update applies to all USCIS employees with respect to determinations of all the former Immigrant
Petitions by Alien Investors ( Form I-526 ),[131] Petitions by Investors to Remove Conditions on
Permanent Resident Status ( Form I-829 ), and the former Applications for Regional Center Designation
Under the Immigrant Investor Program ( Form I-924 ) filed on or after that date and prior to March 15,
2022.[132] USCIS also gives deference to Form I-526 and Form I-829 petitions directly related to
projects approved before May 15, 2018, absent material change, fraud or misrepresentation, or legal
deficiency of the prior determination.[133]
Previously , on December 20, 2012, USCIS had issued policy guidance defining the criteria to be used
in the adjudication of applications and petitions relying on tenant occupancy to establish indirect jobs.
[134] In November 2016, USCIS published consolidated policy guidance on immigrant investors in this
Policy Manual, including guidance on the tenant occupancy methodology . That guidance provided that
investors could (1) map a specific amount of direct, imputed, or subsidized investment to new jobs, or
(2) use a facilitation-based approach to demonstrate the project would remove a significant market-
based constraint.
The first method requires mapping a specific amount of direct, imputed, or subsidized investment to
new jobs such that there is an equity or direct financial connection between the EB-5 capital
investment and the employees of prospective tenants. In practice, however , the construction of
standard of fice or retail space alone does not lead to a suf ficient connection for this type of mapping
such that tenant jobs can be credited to the new commercial enterprise. The existence of numerous
other factors, such as the identity of future tenants and demand for that type of business, makes it
difficult to relate individual jobs to a specific space.
The second method looks at whether the investment removes a significant market-based constraint,
referred to in the 2012 guidance as the “facilitation based approach.” In providing this approach as an
option, USCIS explicitly allowed applicants and petitioners to avoid having to establish an equity or
direct financial connection between the EB-5 capital investment and the employees of prospective
tenants. As of May 15, 2018, however , USCIS determined that that allowance was ill-advised, because
a direct financial connection between the EB-5 capital investment and the job creation is necessary to
determine a suf ficient nexus between the two. Reliance on a showing of constraint on supply or
excess of demand by itself does not establish a causal link between specific space and a net new
labor demand such that it would overcome the lack of a suf ficient nexus.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1267/2618