arrangement outside of a condition of servitude that does not rise to traf ficking, such as facilitating the
smuggling operation or avoiding detection at the border . USCIS makes an individualized determination
of whether traf ficking has been established based on the evidence in each particular case.
Even if an applicant establishes that traf ficking arose over the course of their smuggling arrangement,
the applicant must nevertheless establish that they are physically present in the United States or a
U.S. port of entry on account of their traf ficking.
C. Physical Presence on Account of T rafficking
Principal applicants for T nonimmigrant status must demonstrate at the time of application that they
are physically present in the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands,[36] or at a U.S. port of entry , on account of traf ficking.[37]
Some traf fickers arrange for entry of their victims into these jurisdictions as part of the traf ficking
scheme, while other traf fickers prey upon aliens who are already in the United States. Aliens already
in the United States may have entered lawfully or they may have entered without being admitted or
paroled and are unlawfully present. USCIS takes into account any relevant circumstances relating to
the applicant’ s arrival and current presence in these jurisdictions.[38]
1. Establishing Physical Presence Requirement
Applicants are able to establish physical presence on account of traf ficking if they:
Are present because they are currently being subjected to a severe form of traf ficking in
persons;
Were liberated from a severe form of traf ficking in persons by a law enforcement agency (LEA); 
Escaped a severe form of traf ficking in persons before an LEA  was involved; 
Were subjected to a severe form of traf ficking in persons at some point in the past and their
continuing presence in the United States is directly related to the original traf ficking in persons;
or 
Are present on account of having been allowed entry into the United States for participation in
investigative or judicial processes associated with an act or perpetrator of traf ficking.[39]
Applicants must demonstrate physical presence at the time of the application, but the phrase “at the
time of application” does not impose a limitation on the specific amount of time between the original
trafficking and the filing of the application. The victim may file the application at any time.
There is no requirement that the victim be in an ongoing traf ficking situation, be in continuous contact
with the traf ficker , interact with the traf ficker , or be under the control of the traf ficker to qualify under
this standard, although these factors may be relevant in determining whether an applicant has
established physical presence on account of traf ficking.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 658/2618