The same is also true in cases involving separation. The prior assessment by USCIS with respect to
the qualifying relative indicates that he or she would likely face increased dif ficulty returning to that
country to visit the applicant, thus generally resulting in hardship that is greater than that normally
present in cases involving family separation. The applicant might also show that, due to their
relationship, the applicant may experience persecution or other dangers similar to those that gave rise
to the qualifying relative’ s underlying status. The qualifying relative in such a case may suf fer
additional psychological trauma due to the potential for harm to the applicant in the country of
relocation.
2. Qualifying Relative or Related Family Member ’s Disability
Cases involving disabled individuals often involve hardships that rise above the common
consequences. If a government agency has made a formal disability determination[14] with regard to
the qualifying relative, or with regard to a family member of the qualifying relative who is dependent on
the qualifying relative for care, that factor would often weigh heavily in support of finding that either
relocation or separation would result in extreme hardship under the totality of the circumstances.
In cases involving either (1) relocation of the qualifying relative with a disability or (2) relocation of both
the qualifying relative and the relevant family member with a disability , the applicant will need to show
that the services available to the disabled individual in the country of relocation are unavailable or
significantly inferior to those available to him or her in the United States. In such cases, the disability
determination would often weigh heavily in support of a finding of extreme hardship.
In cases involving separation, the applicant will need to show that the qualifying relative with a
disability , or the relevant family member with a disability , generally requires the applicant’ s assistance
for care due to the disability . Where replacement care is not realistically available and obtainable, the
disability determination would often weigh heavily in support of a finding of extreme hardship.
Absent a formal disability determination, an applicant may provide other evidence that a qualifying
relative or relevant individual suf fers from a medical condition, whether mental or physical, that makes
either travel to, or residence in, the country of relocation detrimental to the qualifying relative or family
member ’s health or safety . Similarly , an applicant may provide other evidence that the condition of the
qualifying relative requires the applicant’ s assistance for care.
3. Qualifying Relative’ s Military Service
Military service by a qualifying relative often results in hardships from denial of the applicant’ s
admission that rise above the common consequences of denying admission. If a qualifying relative is
an Active Duty member of any branch of the U.S. armed forces,[15] or is an individual in the Selected
Reserve of the Ready Reserve, denial of an applicant’ s admission often causes psychological and
emotional harm that significantly exacerbates the stresses, anxieties and other hardships inherent in
military service by a qualifying relative.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2129/2618