clothing, employment and an education which were routinely available to the rest of the
population.”[61]
Under the INA, an immigrant is not inadmissible when his membership in or af filiation with a
communist or totalitarian party is necessary in order to obtain food or employment. Inadmissibility
“shall not apply to an alien because of membership or af filiation if the alien establishes . . . that the
membership or af filiation is or was . . . for purposes of obtaining employment, food rations, or other
essentials of living and whether necessary for such purposes.”[62] If the immigrant’ s membership or
affiliation with a communist or totalitarian party was not actually necessary for purposes of such
essentials of living, then the immigrant is inadmissible unless another exception applies.
Past Membership
If an of ficer has determined that the applicant has been a member of or af filiated with a proscribed
organization and one of the involuntary membership exceptions does not apply , the of ficer should
evaluate whether the past membership exception applies to the applicant.
An immigrant may be excepted from inadmissibility under INA  212(a)(3)(D) if the immigrant can
establish that:
His or her membership in or af filiation with a proscribed organization terminated at least 2[63] or
5 years before the date of receipt of the application (if the immigrant's membership or af filiation
was with the party controlling the government of a foreign state that is a totalitarian dictatorship
as of such date, the immigrant must establish that his or her membership or af filiation terminated
at least 5 years before the date of receipt); and
He or she is not a threat to the security of the United States.[64]
In cases that involve past membership, mere termination for the requisite time period is suf ficient;
active opposition is not required.[65] It is also the applicant’ s burden to prove that he or she is not a
threat to the security of United States.
Furthermore, where the evidence shows that the immigrant is a threat to the security of the United
States, the immigrant may also be inadmissible under security and related grounds[66] or terrorist
activities.[67] An immigrant may be found to be a threat to the security of the United States and
ineligible for the exception even if not inadmissible under a separate security or terrorist inadmissibility
ground.[68]
If the of ficer finds that a meaningful membership or af filiation in a proscribed organization exists, and
the immigrant does not qualify for either of the two exceptions, then the of ficer should find the
immigrant inadmissible under INA  212(a)(3)(D) for being or having been a member of the Communist
or any other totalitarian party .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1959/2618