a full-time position is shared by more than one employee, the following evidence, among others, may
be relevant:
A written job-sharing agreement;
A weekly schedule that identifies the positions subject to a job-sharing arrangement and the
hours to be worked by each employee under the job-sharing arrangement; and
Evidence of the sharing of the responsibilities or benefits of a permanent, full-time position
between the employees subject to the job-sharing arrangement.
Jobs that are intermittent, temporary , seasonal, or transient in nature do not qualify as permanent full-
time jobs. However , jobs that are expected to last at least 2 years are generally not considered
intermittent, temporary , seasonal, or transient in nature.
4. Measuring Job Creation
The immigrant investor seeking to enter the United States through the EB-5 program must invest the
required amount of capital in a new commercial enterprise that will create full-time positions for at least
10 qualifying employees. There are three methods of measuring job creation depending on the new
commercial enterprise and where it is located.
Troubled Business
The U.S. economy benefits when the immigrant investor ’s capital helps preserve the troubled
business’ s existing jobs. Immigrant investors investing in a new commercial enterprise that is a
troubled business, must show that the number of existing employees in the troubled business is being,
or will be, maintained at no less than the pre-investment level for a period of at least 2 years.[115] This
applies in the regional center context as well.
The troubled business regulatory provision does not decrease the number of jobs required. An
immigrant investor who invests in a troubled business must still demonstrate that 10 jobs have been
preserved, created, or some combination of the two. For example, an investment in a troubled
business that creates four qualifying jobs and preserves all six pre-investment jobs would satisfy the
job creation requirement.
The regulatory definition of a troubled business is a business that has:
Been in existence for at least 2 years;
Has incurred a net loss for accounting purposes (determined on the basis of generally accepted
accounting principles) during the 12-month or 24-month period prior to the priority date on Form
I-526  or Form I-526E ; and
Had a loss for the same period at least equal to 20 percent of the troubled business’ s net worth
prior to the loss.[116]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1263/2618