Principal Asylee Who No Longer Meets Definition of Refugee and has Asylum Status T erminated
If a principal asylee no longer meets the definition of a refugee and his or her asylum status is
terminated, then a derivative asylee is also no longer eligible to adjust status.
3. Nunc Pro T unc Asylum Cases
“Nunc pro tunc,” meaning “now for then,” refers to cases where a derivative asylee who is ineligible to
adjust status as a derivative asylee may file for and be granted asylum in his or her own right and the
grant may be dated as of the date of the original principal’ s asylum grant. Any alien who is physically
present in the United States regardless of status may apply for asylum. In certain cases,
the nunc pro tunc process may enable a derivative asylee who is ineligible to adjust as a derivative to
become a principal asylee and eligible to adjust status. 
Like any other asylum application filed with USCIS, these cases are handled by the Asylum Division of
the Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) Directorate. New asylum applications can
be filed by derivative asylees requesting to be considered as principal applicants. 
If an of ficer encounters a case in which the applicant is not eligible for adjustment of status as a
derivative asylee, the adjustment application should be denied. 
4. Pre-Departure Marriages and Divorces
Occasionally , derivative asylees who are admitted to the United States based on a
refugee/asylee relative petition ( Form I-730 ) will end their relationship to the principal asylee through
either divorce or marriage after the grant of the petition, but before being admitted to the United
States. In these cases, if the derivative asylee was admitted to the United States, he or she was not
eligible for that status at time of admission because the status was dependent upon the relationship to
the principal, which no longer existed at time of admission.[9]
While USCIS may pursue termination of status on these applicants, the actual relationship of the
derivative to the principal may be a consideration in the determination. In cases in which the of ficer
makes an initial determination that termination may be appropriate, he or she should return the file to
the asylum of fice for further review and potential termination of status. 
Derivatives who end their relationship with the principal asylee at any time are not eligible to adjust
status in their own right, but may be eligible to file for asylum as a principal applicant.
5. Non-Existent or Fraudulent Relationships
At times, an of ficer may discover that a derivative asylee never had a bona fide relationship to the
principal asylee. Examples would include a claimed spouse who was never legally married to the
principal although they may have cohabitated or other relatives who are claimed as children. Those
derivatives will be ineligible to adjust status. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1815/2618