vaccination assessment, and the certifications. The other parts are irrelevant and do not have to be
submitted.
If the health department physician is completing only a vaccination assessment for refugees seeking
adjustment, the physician’ s signature may be either an original (handwritten) or a stamped signature,
as long as it is the signature of the health department physician. The attending nurse may , but does
not have to, co-sign with the physician. The signature of the physician must be accompanied by the
health department’ s stamp or raised seal, whichever is customarily used.
If the health department does not properly sign, the of ficer should return the medical documentation to
the applicant for corrective action.[14]
Signature of a Military Physician Designated as a Civil Surgeon for Members and V eterans of the
Armed Forces
To ease the dif ficulties encountered by physicians and applicants in the military , USCIS issued a
blanket civil surgeon designation to qualifying military physicians to permit them to perform the
immigration medical examination and complete the Form I-693  for eligible members and veterans of
the U.S. armed forces and their dependents.[15]
As agreed upon by USCIS and the CDC, military physicians who qualify under this blanket civil
surgeon designation may perform the entire immigration medical examination as long as the
examination is conducted in the United States on the premises of a Military Treatment Facility (MTF)
and conducted for a U.S. armed forces member , veteran, or dependent who is eligible to receive
medical care at the MTF .
If operating under the blanket civil surgeon designation for military physicians, a physician’ s signature
may be either an original (handwritten) or stamped signature, as long as it is the signature of a
qualifying military physician. Nurses and other health care professionals may , but are not required to,
co-sign the form. The signature of the physician must be accompanied by the of ficial stamp or raised
seal of the MTF , whichever is customarily used.
If the military physician does not properly sign, the of ficer should return the medical documentation to
the applicant for corrective action.
Signature of the Applicant
The applicant or the civil surgeon may complete the section about the applicant’ s information. The civil
surgeon must always verify the applicant’ s identity by requiring a government-issued identification
(ID), as stated in CDC’ s Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons.
The applicant must sign the certification only when instructed by the civil surgeon, at the beginning of
the immigration medical examination. By signing the form, the applicant attests that they consent to8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1902/2618