USCIS will inform the applicant if they need to submit biometrics in connection with the naturalization
application at an authorized site such as a U.S. embassy , U.S. consulate, or U.S. military installation.
In addition, the applicant submitting Form I-131[41] is required to provide documentation to establish
eligibility for an advance parole document.
Land Port of Entry
At its discretion, USCIS may coordinate with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to facilitate a
naturalization interview at a land port of entry , if necessary . USCIS notifies and coordinates with the
applicant to schedule an appointment and process the naturalization application. If the application is
approved, the applicant may be administered the Oath of Allegiance at the port of entry unless a court
has exclusive authority to administer the oath.[42]
Failure to Appear at Interview
USCIS considers the applicant to have abandoned his or her application and administratively closes
the application in cases where the applicant:
Fails to appear at his or her scheduled naturalization interview at a port of entry; and
Fails to notify USCIS of the reason for nonappearance within 30 days of the scheduled interview .
USCIS considers subsequent correspondence from an applicant within 1 year of the administrative
closure a request to reopen the application.[43]
Jurisdiction
The USCIS of fice having jurisdiction over the applicant’ s last residence within the United States or
Outlying Possession (OLP) maintains jurisdiction over the naturalization application.[44] If there is no
evidence in the application to establish the applicant’ s last place of residence in the United States or
OLP, the field of fice should review the service record for the address of record at the time of departure.
If the applicant requests to have the naturalization interview conducted at a USCIS of fice other than
the of fice having jurisdiction based on the applicant’ s last residence, or at a port of entry , the of fice
having jurisdiction may coordinate, if practicable, with the appropriate of fice to accommodate the
request. Even if such a request for an interview is approved, the original of fice retains jurisdiction over
the adjudication of the naturalization application. If USCIS determines that the applicant will be
interviewed at a port of entry , the of fice retaining jurisdiction may elect to travel to the port of entry to
conduct the interview or coordinate with the field of fice closest to the port of entry to conduct the
interview .
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2543/2618