The asylee is admissible to the United States as an immigrant at the time of examination for
adjustment of status, subject to various exceptions and waivers. 
Applicants who fail to meet any of these requirements are statutorily ineligible for adjustment of status
as an asylee. 
The Immigration Act of 1990 (IMMACT  90) added additional eligibility requirements to applicants
granted asylum who wish to adjust status. USCIS issued regulations[1]to clarify that persons granted
asylum status prior to enactment of IMMACT  90 would not be subject to these additional requirements
at time of adjustment. 
Therefore, applicants who were granted asylum prior to November 29, 1990 may have their status
adjusted to permanent residents even if they no longer are a refugee due to a change in circumstance,
no longer meet the definition of a refugee, or have failed to meet the required 1 year of physical
presence in the United States after being granted asylum. These applicants need only apply for
adjustment and establish that they have not been resettled in another country and are not inadmissible
to the United States. 
Although it is unlikely that any of these cases still remain pending, an of ficer should be aware of these
special provisions that apply to any asylum adjustment applicant whose grant of asylum was prior to
November 29, 1990.
A. Physical Presence in the United States of at Least 1 Year
Asylees may adjust status to a lawful permanent resident after being physically present in the United
States for at least 1 year at the time of adjudication of the adjustment of status application.[2] A
principal asylee’ s physical presence starts accruing on the date the asylee is granted asylum.
If a derivative asylee was physically present in the United States when USCIS approved their
Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ) or the principal asylee’ s Application for Asylum and for
Withholding of Removal ( Form I-589 ), whichever is applicable, then the derivative asylee may start
accruing physical presence on the approval date of the petition or application. If the
derivative asylee is living abroad when USCIS approves the Form I-730 petition, then the derivative
asylee’ s physical presence begins accruing on the date of admission as an asylee.
Only time spent in the United States counts towards the 1-year physical presence requirement. An
asylee who travels outside the United States as an asylee will not meet the physical presence
requirement until the cumulative amount of time spent in the United States is at least 1 year . The
officer should review the asylee’ s adjustment application and the documentation in the record to
determine the amount of time the asylee has been present in the United States since the date of the
asylum grant (or admission as a derivative asylee for Form I-730 beneficiaries processed abroad). The
officer may request additional information from the asylee to demonstrate physical presence in the
United States if the of ficer is unable to determine it from the evidence.[3]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1812/2618