the petition according to existing DHS regulations and policy concerning the H-2B classification. After
filing a petition, a petitioner may not request to remove or add agreements and projects to cure a
deficient filing.[12]
As stated above, while the H-2B temporary need exemption remains limited to contracts or
subcontracts for labor or services for construction, repairs, renovations, or facility services, the FY
2021 NDAA  language extends the previous exemption found in the FY  2019 NDAA  to include those
that are supporting or adversely af fected by the military realignment, in addition to those that are
directly connected to or associated with the realignment.
Eligibility for NDAA  Exemption Must Relate to Military Realignment Occurring on Guam and CNMI
Under the FY  2021 NDAA, to qualify for the NDAA  exemption, the direct connection, support,
association, or adverse ef fect cannot relate to just any military activity on Guam or in the CNMI; rather ,
it must relate to the military realignment occurring on Guam and the [CNMI].[13]
Military realignment refers generally to the planned realignment of U.S. Marines from Okinawa, Japan
to Guam, as well as other U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) force structure realignment in the Indo-
Pacific region involving Guam and the CNMI stemming from DOD Records of Decision occurring in
2010 and 2015.
Guam has a long-established U.S. military presence (including U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy bases)
that predates this military realignment, including ongoing activities that are not related to the military
realignment, and therefore would not be covered by the NDAA.
While some military activity on Guam or in the CNMI that is not specifically related to the U.S. Marines
may come under the military realignment, distinguishing U.S. military activity that is the realignment as
compared to other military activity on Guam or in the CNMI may be complex for USCIS of ficers.
The distinction essentially requires a determination of general military function, and the broader
strategic goal supported by a particular contract or subcontract is unlikely to be evident from the
contract documents themselves. As such, input from the DOD is particularly important to support
petitions claiming eligibility as supporting, associated with, or directly connected to the military
realignment, as further described below .[14]
Furthermore, it is unlikely to be evident from the contract documents themselves how the military
realignment negatively impacted a particular contract or subcontract. Therefore, input from the Guam
Department of Labor (Guam DOL) describing the adverse ef fect is important, though not in itself
determinative, to support petitions that claim that a contract or subcontract was negatively impacted,
and that the adverse ef fect was due to the ongoing military realignment, as further described below .
[15] In all cases, USCIS determines whether there is an adverse impact based on the totality of the
facts and circumstances of the case, under the preponderance of the evidence standard.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 436/2618