Family ties in the United States;
Any serious medical conditions;
Any criminal history;
Other connections to the community; or
Information indicating a public safety or national security concern.
Background information may be relevant for eligibility determinations and to the exercise of discretion.
For discretionary benefits, the benefit requestor has the burden of showing that a favorable exercise of
discretion is warranted through the submission of evidence.[45] In cases where negative factors are
present, the of ficer may ask the requestor directly why he or she warrants a favorable exercise of
discretion. The of ficer should document any response, or lack thereof, in the record.
Determining Whether Requestor First Meets Threshold Eligibility Requirements
The discretionary analysis is the final step in the adjudication. Generally , the of ficer should first
determine whether the requestor meets all threshold eligibility requirements before beginning the
discretionary analysis. If the of ficer determines the requestor has not met the eligibility requirements
for the benefit sought, the of ficer may deny the request without completing a discretionary analysis.
However , an of ficer may include a discretionary analysis if a discretionary denial would be warranted
even if the requestor had met the threshold statutory and regulatory requirements.
In the process of determining whether the requestor has met the eligibility requirements for the benefit
sought, the of ficer might find that certain facts related to threshold eligibility for the specific benefit may
also be relevant to the discretionary determination.
For example, if an of ficer finds that an adjustment applicant was convicted of a crime, the applicant
might be inadmissible. The criminal conviction may also af fect the discretionary analysis.
Conducting Discretionary Analysis
The act of exercising discretion involves the weighing of positive and negative factors and considering
the totality of the circumstances in the specific case. In the immigration context, the goal is to assess
whether , based on the totality of the circumstances, the person warrants a favorable exercise of
discretion.[46]
2. Identifying Discretionary Factors
Any facts related to the person’ s conduct, character , family ties, other lawful ties to the United States,
immigration status, or any other humanitarian concerns may be appropriate factors to consider in the
exercise of discretion. A person’ s conduct can include how he or she entered the United States and
what he or she has done since arrival, such as employment, schooling, or any evidence of criminal
activity . Whether the person has family members living in the United States also is relevant to the8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 302/2618