If invested in a single new commercial enterprise and where the of fering and organizational
documents provide, an investor ’s full investment may be distributed to more than one job-creating
entity in a portfolio investment strategy . The record must demonstrate that the new commercial
enterprise will create the requisite jobs through the portfolio of projects. In addition, each investor (or
regional center for regional center-based petitions filed on or after May 14, 2022) must demonstrate
that the full amount of money is made available to the business(es) most closely responsible for
creating the employment upon which the petition is based, which may be one or multiple job-creating
entities in a portfolio.
3. Full-T ime Positions for Qualifying Employees
The investment into a new commercial enterprise must create full-time positions for not fewer than 10
qualifying employees.[109] An employee is defined as a person who provides services or labor for the
new commercial enterprise and who receives wages or other remuneration directly from the new
commercial enterprise. In the case of the Regional Center Program, an employee also means a
person who provides services or labor in a job that has been created indirectly through investment in
the new commercial enterprise.[110]
Qualifying Employee
For the purpose of the job creation requirement, the employee must be a qualifying employee. A
qualifying employee is a U.S. citizen, a lawfully admitted permanent resident, or other immigrant
lawfully authorized for employment in the United States including, but not limited to, a conditional
resident, a temporary resident, an asylee, a refugee, or an alien remaining in the United States under
suspension of deportation. This definition does not include the immigrant investor , the immigrant
investor ’s spouse, sons, daughters, or any nonimmigrant.[111]
Full-T ime Employment
For the purpose of the job creation requirement, the position must be a full-time employment position.
[112] Full-time employment is defined as employment of a qualifying employee by the new commercial
enterprise in a position that requires a minimum of 35 working hours per week.[113] In the case of the
Regional Center Program, full-time employment also means employment of a qualifying employee in a
position that has been created indirectly that requires a minimum of 35 working hours per week.
Two or more qualifying employees can fill a full-time employment position in a job-sharing
arrangement. Job sharing is permissible so long as the 35 working hours per week requirement is met.
However , the definition of full-time employment does not include combinations of part-time positions,
even if those positions when combined meet the hourly requirement per week.[114]
A job-sharing arrangement whereby two or more qualifying employees share a full-time position
counts as full-time employment provided the hourly requirement per week is met. To demonstrate that8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1262/2618