After USCIS approves U nonimmigrant status for a principal petitioner living in the United States,
USCIS notifies the petitioner of such approval by issuing a Notice of Action (Form I-797). USCIS also
includes an Arrival-Departure Record (Form I-94), indicating U-1 nonimmigrant status.
Principal petitioners living in the United States receive employment authorization incident to a grant of
U nonimmigrant status.[6] However , petitioners living outside the United States do not receive an initial
employment authorization document until they have obtained a U nonimmigrant visa at a U.S.
consulate or embassy and have been admitted to the United States as a U nonimmigrant.
Qualifying Family Members
USCIS may not approve U nonimmigrant status for a qualifying family member unless USCIS has
granted the principal petitioner U nonimmigrant status.
When USCIS approves a Petition for Qualifying Family Member of a U-1 Recipient ( Form I-918,
Supplement A) for a qualifying family member living in the United States, it concurrently grants that
petitioner U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status.
USCIS issues the Form I-797 regarding the approval of U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status to
the principal petitioner . USCIS also issues a Form I-94 indicating U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant
status.
Classes of Applicants and Corresponding Codes of Admission
ApplicantCode of
Admission
Principal Petitioner U-1
Spouse of Principal Petitioner U-2
Unmarried Child under the age of 21 of Principal Petitioner U-3
Parent of Principal Petitioner (who is under the age of 21) U-4
Unmarried Sibling under the age of 18 of Principal Petitioner (who is under the
age of 21)U-5
Qualifying family members must submit a fee or a Request for Fee W aiver ( Form I-912 ) for an
Application for Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ) associated with a grant of U nonimmigrant
status.[7]
Petitioners Living Outside the United States
After USCIS approves U nonimmigrant status for a principal petitioner or qualifying family member
living outside the United States, USCIS notifies the principal petitioner of such approval on Form I-797.
USCIS also forwards the notice to the U.S. Department of State (DOS).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 746/2618