Amerasian Act applicants seeking adjustment of status are subject to all grounds of inadmissibility .[15]
In general, an applicant who is inadmissible to the United States may only obtain LPR status if he or
she obtains a waiver or other form of relief, if available.[16] If a ground of inadmissibility applies, an
applicant must apply for a waiver or other form of relief to overcome the inadmissibility as described
under INA 212(a) .[17] Applicants requesting a waiver must file an Application for W aiver of Grounds of
Inadmissibility ( Form I-601 ). If a waiver or other form of relief is granted, USCIS may approve the
adjustment application if the applicant is otherwise eligible.
Amerasian Homecoming Act Applicants
Amerasian Homecoming Act adjustment applicants are subject to all grounds of inadmissibility , except:
Public Charge – INA 212(a)(4) ;
Labor Certification – INA 212(a)(5) ; and
Documentation Requirements – INA 212(a)(7)(A) .
Like other adjustment applicants, an applicant seeking to adjust based on the Amerasian Homecoming
Act who is inadmissible to the United States may only obtain LPR status if he or she obtains a waiver
or other form of relief, if available.[18] If a ground of inadmissibility applies, an applicant must apply for
a waiver or other form of relief to overcome the inadmissibility .[19]
The Amerasian Homecoming Act has its own waiver provisions. USCIS may waive grounds of
inadmissibility on an individual basis for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity , or when it is
otherwise in the public interest. Applicants requesting a waiver must file an Application for W aiver of
Grounds of Inadmissibility ( Form I-601 ).
D. Petition for Amerasian
Filing a Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) is the first step for an
Amerasian beneficiary to become an LPR. However , the filing or approval of the petition does not give
the beneficiary any immigration status or benefit. Generally , if the petition is approved, the beneficiary
can file an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ) to apply to
become an LPR. Applicants are not eligible to file the adjustment application concurrently with the
Form I-360 petition.
1. Documentation and Evidence
The petitioner must file the Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) in
accordance with the form instructions.[20] The petition may be filed by:
A person claiming to be eligible for Amerasian classification (the beneficiary);
Any person who is 18 years of age or older (or an emancipated minor) who is filing on behalf of
the beneficiary; or8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1872/2618