[^ 30]  See Chapter 3, Applicability of Medical Examination and V accination Requirement [ 8 USCIS-PM
B.3] for more information on these special considerations.
Chapter 5 - Review of Overall Findings
A. Overall Finding of Admissibility
The civil surgeon should properly complete the part addressing when the medical examinations and
any follow-up examinations took place. The civil surgeon should also mark the appropriate boxes in
the “Summary of Overall Findings” section. 
If the summary indicates a Class A condition, the of ficer should ensure that the findings in the other
form sections correspond. If they do correspond, the applicant is inadmissible. If there is conflicting
information, the of ficer should return the form to the applicant for corrective action. 
If the civil surgeon omits the summary finding entirely , the of ficer should check the findings in the other
form sections to determine whether the applicant has a Class A condition. If all sections are properly
completed, and no Class A condition has been indicated by the civil surgeon, the of ficer should
not issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) and instead proceed with the adjudication.
If the of ficer is unable to determine whether the applicant has a Class A condition based on the other
form sections, the of ficer should return the form to the applicant for corrective action. The RFE should
be sent to the applicant directing him or her to return to the civil surgeon to correct the form. 
B. Changes to the Summary Findings
The Technical Instructions direct civil surgeons to treat Class A communicable diseases of public
health significance or refer the applicant for treatment. Generally , the civil surgeon can only sign of f
upon completion of the treatment. This is why the of ficer may encounter a summary finding that has
been reclassified from a “Class A condition” to a “Class B” or “No Class A or Class B” condition.
The of ficer should not reject the form because of the reclassification as long as the information is
consistent with the information otherwise provided in the medical examination documentation. In such
cases, the applicant is not inadmissible on health-related grounds.
For example, a civil surgeon may initially annotate the summary section with a Class A condition but,
following treatment, change the annotation to a Class B condition. In this instance, the summary
section may indicate an earlier Class A condition, followed by a later Class B determination. Since the
civil surgeon indicated on the Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record
(Form I-693 ) that a former Class A condition is now a Class B condition, the applicant is not
inadmissible on health-related grounds. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1908/2618