a child or relinquishes the child to an agency; and
Any other service the payment for which the of ficer finds, on the basis of the facts of the case,
was reasonably necessary .
2. Fraud or Misrepresentation
Fraud is the willful misrepresentation of a material fact. In the adoption context, this typically involves
concealment of a material fact to obtain an of ficial document or judgment by a court or authorized
entity (for example, an adoption decree). To meet the requirement of materiality , evidence of the
misrepresentation must be documented and generally relate to the child’ s eligibility as a Convention
adoptee.
3. Non-Bona Fide Intent
The P AP must establish that the purpose of the adoption (or legal custody for adoption) is for the P AP
to form a bona fide parent-child relationship with the child.[7] The intent to create a legal permanent
parent-child relationship requires the intent to raise the child as their own child, with the same mutual
rights and obligations that exist between a birth parent and birth child.
Intent in this case implies the provision of care, support, and direction to the Convention adoptee,
without the intent to profit financially or otherwise from the presence of the child. The P AP must also
establish that the parent-child relationship between the child and the birth or other prior legal parent(s)
has been terminated. USCIS evaluates the petition to determine if the intent of the adoption is for the
PAP to form a genuine parent-child relationship and not solely for immigration purposes.
USCIS generally does not consider P APs who intend to terminate the adoption or transfer physical or
legal custody of the child after the child enters the United States to meet the bona fide relationship
requirement.
B. Child Matches Characteristics that Prospective Adoptive Parent is Approved For
During the suitability and eligibility application process, USCIS determined that the evidence submitted
established the P AP was a suitable adoptive parent for a child with specific characteristics.[8] The child
must match the characteristics that the P AP has been approved to adopt (such as age, sex,
nationality , special needs, and number of children).
If the child does not match the characteristics for which USCIS has approved the P AP to adopt, then
the of ficer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE)[9] for an updated home study , any related
documents, and a Form I-800A, Supplement 3, Request for Action on an Approved Form I-800A  (Form
I-800A, Supplement 3 ).
1. Special Needs8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 990/2618