of family relocation. When assessing extreme hardship claims based on relocation, USCIS focuses on
how denial of the applicant’ s admission would af fect the qualifying relative’ s well-being given the
qualifying relative’ s relocation outside the United States. 
An applicant may show that extreme hardship to a qualifying relative would result from both separation
and relocation.[6] However , an applicant is not required to show extreme hardship under both
scenarios. An applicant may submit evidence demonstrating which of the 2 scenarios would result
from a denial of admission and may establish extreme hardship to one or more qualifying relatives by
showing that either relocation or separation would result in extreme hardship.[7]
If the applicant seeks to demonstrate extreme hardship based on separation or relocation, the
applicant’ s evidence must demonstrate that the designated outcome “would result” from the denial of
the waiver . The applicant may meet this burden by submitting a statement from the qualifying relative
certifying under penalty of perjury that the qualifying relative would relocate or separate if the applicant
is denied admission. The statement should be suf ficiently detailed to adequately convey to USCIS the
reasons why either separation or relocation would likely result from a denial of admission. The
applicant may also submit documentation or other evidence, if available, in support of this statement. 
Due to the subjective factors inherently involved in decisions involving separation or relocation, a
credible statement from the qualifying relative may be the best available evidence for establishing
whether he or she would separate or relocate if the applicant’ s admission is denied. Among other
things, such decisions generally involve the weighing of many deeply personal and subjective factors
that cannot be objectively assessed by others. 
Qualifying relative spouses, for example, are faced with the choice of separating from their applicant
spouses to remain in the United States or leaving the United States to relocate abroad with their
applicant spouses. The former may involve, among other things, the significant decline in the
emotional support and af fection between spouses; the latter may involve leaving behind important ties
to the United States, including family and friends in the country , jobs and career opportunities,
educational opportunities, availability of medical care, and safety and security . Decisions based on
such complex human factors may be dif ficult to prove other than through credible statements.
However , if the USCIS of ficer determines that such a statement is not plausible or credible (including
because it is inconsistent with the evidence of hardship presented), the of ficer may request additional
evidence from the applicant to support the designation that the qualifying relative would separate or
relocate. In such cases, the of ficer must consider the subjective nature of the inquiry and the dif ficulty
involved in proving intent in this context through documentary or other supporting evidence. 
Moreover , the of ficer must make determinations based on the evidence and arguments presented and
not on the of ficer’s personal moral view as to whether a particular qualifying
relative “ought” to either relocate or separate in an individual case. Generally , in the absence of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2117/2618