to the applicant’ s eligibility for naturalization. In addition to oath waiver , this process may require
accommodations including of f-site examinations.[5]
Persons eligible to act on behalf of the applicant include: 
A person who a proper court has designated as the applicant’ s legal guardian or surrogate and
who is authorized to exercise legal authority over the applicant’ s affairs; or 
In the absence of a legal guardian or surrogate, a U.S. citizen, spouse, parent, adult son or
daughter , or adult brother or sister who is the primary custodial caregiver and who takes
responsibility for the applicant. 
USCIS will only recognize one designated representative in the following order of priority: 
Legal guardian or surrogate (highest priority);
U.S. citizen spouse;
U.S. citizen parent;
U.S. citizen adult son or daughter;
U.S. citizen adult brother or sister (lowest priority).
If there is a priority conflict between the persons seeking to represent the applicant and the persons
share the same degree of familial relationship, USCIS gives priority to the party with seniority in age.
The person acting on behalf of the applicant must provide proof of legal guardianship, or
documentation to establish the familial relationship, such as a birth certificate, marriage certificate, or
adoption decree. In addition, the person must provide documentation to establish that he or she has
the primary custodial care and responsibility for the applicant (for example, income tax returns, Social
Security Administration documents, and af fidavits from other relatives). A spouse, parent, adult son or
daughter , or adult brother or sister who is not the legal guardian or surrogate must provide evidence of
U.S. citizenship.
5. Allowing Nonverbal Communication
An of ficer may accept forms of nonverbal communication, such as blinking, head shaking or nodding,
tapping, or other ef fective forms of nonverbal communication during the naturalization examination.
The of ficer should also allow the applicant to point to answers on the application and allow the
applicant to write out the answers to the civics test if the applicant is not able to communicate verbally .
Prior to the start of the naturalization examination, the of ficer, the applicant, and the applicant’ s
representative (if any) should agree to the form of communication.
6. Off-Site Examination8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2294/2618