An of ficer must evaluate legitimation, paternity , and legal custody separately under the laws of the
particular country . It is possible for a child’ s paternity to be established, but for the child to not be
legitimated. It is also possible for a child’ s paternity to be established, but for the child’ s father to never
have had legal custody . Legitimation, however , cannot be established unless paternity has been
established.[11]      
2. Surviving Parent
Surviving parent means a child's living parent when the child's other parent is dead and the child has
not acquired another parent within the meaning of U.S. immigration law .[12]
Essential elements include:
One living parent;
One deceased parent;
The child has not acquired a new legal parent;[13]
The living parent is incapable of providing proper care;[14] and
The living parent has, in writing, irrevocably released child for emigration and adoption in
accordance with the laws of the foreign-sending country .
D. Other Legal Parents
USCIS considers a parent to include any person who is related to a child as the child’ s legal parent,
mother , or father as specified in the definition under U.S. immigration law .[15] The of ficer must
determine for each parent whether the person has legal rights to the child in accordance with the laws
of the foreign-sending country . If the of ficer determines a parent is a legal parent, the of ficer must
determine whether the child has lost the parent.
Stepparents
USCIS must consider the existence of a stepparent in determining whether a child is an orphan.[16]
The of ficer must determine whether the stepparent has legal rights to the child in accordance with the
laws of the foreign-sending country .
If an of ficer determines that the child has a stepparent, the of ficer should request additional evidence
from the P AP, including:
A copy (with a certified English translation) of the relevant statutes, regulations, court judgments,
or other legal authority from the foreign-sending country addressing whether a stepparent has a
legal parent-child relationship to the stepchild; and
A statement from the stepparent (with a certified English translation) indicating that the
stepparent has neither adopted the stepchild nor obtained any other form of legal custody of the
stepchild and has no interest in doing so.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 949/2618