767-1833). For more information, see the USCIS Contact Center  webpage.
Multi-T iered Structure
The USCIS Contact Center provides escalating levels of service to handle inquiries of increasing
complexity , primarily through an Interactive V oice Response (IVR) system[5] and a multi-tiered level of
live assistance.
IVR – The IVR system may initially answer callers’  questions and can send links via email and
text. The IVR system of fers callers live assistance if additional assistance is needed.
Tier 1 – Tier 1 is the first level of live assistance. Tier 1 staf f members, who are contract
employees, provide basic case-specific and general non-case-specific information.
Tier 2 – If Tier 1 is unable to completely resolve an inquiry , Tier 1 staf f members may escalate
the inquiry to a Tier 2 Immigration Services Of ficer. The Tier 2 Immigration Services Of ficer then
contacts the caller by phone or email.
Callers may , at any time, request to have a call directed to a supervisor .
If an inquiry involves a case physically located at a domestic USCIS field of fice or service center , the
USCIS Contact Center may create a service request. The service request is automatically routed to
the USCIS of fice that can best resolve the inquiry . If an inquiry involves a case physically located at an
international USCIS field of fice, the USCIS Contact Center may provide the caller with that of fice’s
contact information and refer the inquiry , as appropriate.
2. International Service
For the convenience of benefit requestors and other interested parties located outside the United
States, USCIS provides a phone number for international callers. The phone number for persons
calling from outside of the United States is (+1) 212-620-3418.
Benefit requestors located outside of the United States may also contact the international of fice with
jurisdiction over their place of residence. USCIS provides a complete listing of international field
offices and their contact information through the International Immigration Of fices webpage.
D. Traditional Mail or Facsimile
While USCIS may respond to case-specific inquiries and requests for assistance by U.S. mail,
the USCIS Contact Center  and online tools  are generally the preferred method of contacting the
agency for timely and ef fective customer service.[6] Dedicated mailing addresses may be available, as
appropriate, to address specific types of inquiries. Before submitting an inquiry , the benefit requestor
should review the Contact Us  webpage to ensure they properly submit their request.
USCIS does not provide general delivery facsimile (fax) numbers, but USCIS of fices may provide a fax
number in specific circumstances when appropriate. For example, an of ficer may provide a fax8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 160/2618