Scenario 4
EF has lived continuously in the United States since entering without inspection 4 years ago. She has
been married to GH, her U.S. Citizen husband, for 2 years. EF seeks a waiver claiming that GH would
suffer extreme hardship if EF were denied admission to the United States. GH has a moderate
income, and EF works as a housecleaner for low wages. GH submits a credible, sworn statement that
he would remain in the United States, and thus would separate from EF , if she is denied the waiver .
Upon separating, the couple would lose the income EF earns. In addition to losing EF’ s income, GH is
committed to sending remittances to EF once she leaves, in whatever amount GH can af ford. EF and
GH do not have children, and GH does not have family in the United States.
Analysis of Scenario 4
These facts alone generally would not rise to the level of extreme hardship, even if the hardships to
the qualifying relative are aggregated. The hardships to GH do not rise above the common
consequences of separation and economic loss.
Scenario 5
JK has lived continuously in the United States since entering without inspection 6 years ago. She
married LM, her U.S. citizen husband, 2 years ago. JK seeks a waiver on the basis that LM would
suffer extreme hardship if JK were denied admission to the United States. JK and LM live near LM’ s
family and friends, and LM has spent little time traveling abroad. He does not speak the language of
the country to which JK would return if she is denied admission, and LM’ s employment opportunities in
that country would be less desirable than in the United States.
Additionally , DOS has issued a travel warning that strongly advises against travel to specific regions in
the country to which JK would return, including the region where her family lives. The region-specific
warning af firmatively recommends against non-essential travel to that region, citing the high rate of
kidnapping and murder . LM submits a credible, sworn statement indicating that due to his recent
marriage, the dif ficulties JK would face in her country , and his commitment to supporting her however
possible, he would relocate to remain with JK if she is denied a waiver .
Analysis of Scenario 5
The totality of these circumstances generally would favor a finding of extreme hardship, significantly in
light of the nature and severity of the DOS travel warning. Although the other hardships present in the
case are common consequences of relocation, LM has also demonstrated that he will return to the
region of a country that is the subject of the DOS travel warning, which advises against non-essential
travel to that region. The travel warning recommending against travel to that particular region of that
country to which LM would relocate is a particularly significant factor that would often weigh heavily in
support of a finding of extreme hardship. If the travel warning were less severe or only temporary , the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2135/2618