Pat submits a credible, sworn statement that Pat will relocate with Tyler despite Pat’ s medical
condition, and the evidence shows under the totality of the circumstances that Pat will relocate with
Tyler. Pat’ s doctor provides a statement that confirms that Pat will continue to progress and function
well if Pat keeps receiving medical treatment and the support from family and other members of Pat’ s
existing social support network. While the doctor cannot fully attest to the availability of care in Tyler’s
native country , the doctor is able to attest that moving to another country and disrupting Pat ’ s medical
care and support network will cause Tyler significant dif ficulties. The doctor ’s statement also states
that Pat will likely not be able to work without the support system Pat has in the United States.
Analysis of Scenario 2
These facts would generally favor a finding of extreme hardship. The aggregate hardships to Pat now
include not only the economic losses, diminution of employment opportunities, and social, cultural, and
linguistic dif ficulties (which are generally common consequences of relocation) but also the additional
medical hardship that Pat would experience if Pat relocates to Tyler’s native country . The attestation of
Pat’s doctor expressing concerns about the disruption in medical care, the ef fect of losing support
from Pat’ s family and social environment, and the possibility of Pat not being able to accept
employment, would generally favor a finding of extreme hardship.
Scenario 3
Assume the facts are the same as originally presented in Scenario 1 (without the additional facts from
Scenario 2), but now with the added facts that Tyler also has LPR parents who live in the United
States. Pat submits a credible, sworn statement indicating that Pat would relocate with Tyler and that
Tyler’s LPR parents would remain in the United States. Again, when analyzing the additional evidence
under the totality of the circumstances, the evidence shows Pat will still relocate with Tyler.
Tyler and Pat both have a close relationship with Tyler’s parents, who are elderly and non-native
English speakers. Tyler regularly transports the parents to medical appointments, translates medical
and other instructions, and of fers them significant emotional support. As a result of the separation from
Tyler and Tyler’s spouse, Tyler’s parents would suf fer significant emotional hardship.
Analysis of Scenario 3
Based on the totality of the evidence presented, the addition of these facts would generally favor a
finding of extreme hardship. There are now 3 qualifying relatives (T yler’s U.S. citizen spouse and
Tyler’s two LPR parents). Although the aggregated hardships to Tyler’s spouse alone (under Scenario
1) include only common consequences of a refusal of admission, aggregating those hardships with the
hardships to Tyler’s elderly parents, which include the potential disruption of their medical care, loss of
ability to navigate their surroundings in English, and their significant emotional hardship resulting from
the loss of their child’ s support, would generally tip the balance in favor of a finding of extreme
hardship.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2134/2618