Officers should review the adjustment application and the underlying approved application for T
nonimmigrant status to ensure that the applicant meets the eligibility criteria. In processing T
nonimmigrant-based adjustment of status applications, of ficers follow general guidelines for
determining ongoing eligibility for adjustment of status cases.[4]
3. Determine Admissibility and Conduct Security Checks
Officers must confirm that the applicant is admissible to the United States or that any inadmissibility
grounds were waived during adjudication of the T nonimmigrant status application. The of ficer must
address any inadmissibility grounds not previously waived before making a final determination on an
adjustment application.[5] Inadmissibility grounds that were already waived at the T nonimmigrant
status stage are considered waived for purposes of adjustment as a T nonimmigrant and do not
require a new waiver on Application for W aiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility ( Form I-601 ).
Officers must ensure that all required security checks are completed and unexpired and that any
derogatory information is resolved, as necessary , before adjudicating an adjustment application.
Officers must also address any national security concerns that may be present in a case.[6]
4. Interview
USCIS may require T nonimmigrant applicants for adjustment of status to attend an in-person
interview if USCIS decides an interview is necessary .[7]
5. Numerical Limitation on Adjustments
Only 5,000 T-1 principal nonimmigrants may adjust status in a given fiscal year .[8] This numerical
limitation does not apply to derivative T nonimmigrants who seek to adjust status. The 5,000 cap is an
overall cap, and there are no limitations on individual countries.
If USCIS receives additional adjustment applications after the yearly limit is reached, USCIS reviews
the applications in the order in which they were received to determine whether the application is
approvable but for the numerical cap. Applications determined to be approvable after the numerical
cap has been reached are placed on a waiting list. USCIS notifies the applicants in writing of their
placement on the waiting list.
Priority on the waiting list is based upon the date on which the application was filed, with the oldest
applications receiving the highest priority . At the beginning of the next fiscal year , USCIS approves
applications on the waiting list in order of highest priority , so long as the applicant remains admissible
and eligible for adjustment of status, and continues to merit a favorable exercise of discretion.
C. Discretionary Analysis8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1781/2618