Aliens adjusting status based on public laws with certain adjustment of status programs;[17] and 
Aliens who obtain relief through a private immigration bill signed into law .
Except for human traf ficking victims and Section 13 adjustment based applicants, an of ficer does not
need to review visa availability for applicants filing in the above categories at the time of final
adjudication. This includes applicants who are immediate relatives.
2. Numerically Limited V isa Availability
Immigrant visa numbers for family-based and employment-based immigrant preference categories as
well as the Diversity V isa program are limited, so they are not always immediately available. 
Family-sponsored preference visas are limited to a minimum of 226,000 visas per year and
employment-based preference visas are limited to a minimum of 140,000 visas per year .[18] By
statute, these annual visa limits can be exceeded where certain immigrant visa numbers from the
previous fiscal year ’s allocation were not fully used. Both categories are further divided into several
sub-categories, each of which receives a certain percentage of the overall visa numbers as prescribed
by law . In addition, there are limits to the percentage of visas that can be allotted based on an
immigrant’ s country of birth.[19]
A visa queue (waiting list or backlog) forms when the demand is higher than the supply of visas for a
given year in any category or country . To distribute the visas among all preference categories, DOS
allocates the visas by providing visa numbers according to the prospective immigrant’ s: 
Preference category; 
Country to which the visa will be charged (usually the country of birth);[20] and 
Priority date. 
Therefore, the length of time an applicant must wait in line before being eligible to file an adjustment
application depends on: 
The demand for and supply of immigrant visa numbers; 
The per-country visa limitations; and
The number of visas allocated for the immigrant’ s preference category .[21]
3. Priority Dates
The priority date is used to determine an immigrant’ s place in the visa queue. The priority date is
generally the date when the applicant’ s relative or employer properly filed the immigrant visa petition
on the applicant’ s behalf with USCIS. A prospective immigrant’ s priority date can be found on Notice of
Action ( Form I-797 ) for the petition filed on his or her behalf.[22] The of ficer should verify the priority
date by reviewing the actual immigrant petition or permanent labor certification application. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1459/2618