Even if an asylee dependent may use the result of the previous examination, he or she must still
establish compliance with the vaccination requirements and submit the vaccination assessment with
his or her adjustment of status application. This requirement applies even if the applicant had a
vaccination assessment completed overseas by a panel physician. To comply with the requirement,
the applicant must have the relevant parts of Form I-693  completed by the civil surgeon.
7. Certain Afghan Nationals Applying for Adjustment of Status After Arriving in the United
States During Operation Allies W elcome
Certain Afghan nationals who arrived in the United States during OA W and completed a qualifying
immigration medical examination are not required to repeat the immigration medical examination when
applying for adjustment of status, provided they meet the following conditions:
The Afghan national completed a full immigration medical examination abroad, or at a
government-run facility in the United States;
A panel physician conducted the immigration medical examination abroad and annotated the
results on DS-7794 or DS-2054, and related worksheets, or a blanket-designated civil surgeon
conducted the immigration medical examination in the United States at a government-run facility
in the United States and annotated the results on Form I-693;
The results of the immigration medical examination are contained in the A-file or USCIS systems
and no Class A medical condition was reported; and
No evidence in the A-file, USCIS systems, or testimony given at the interview suggests that the
applicant has acquired a Class A medical condition after completing their immigration medical
examination.
Additionally , in consultation with CDC, USCIS has determined that Afghan nationals who meet the
above conditions may use their immigration medical examination to show they are not inadmissible
under the health-related grounds for the purpose of any benefit request at any time in the future.
8. Children of Returning Residents Entering the United States[34]
For children of returning residents entering the United States, as long as the parent’ s visa is valid or
the parent is a U.S. resident or U.S. national, there are no medical examination or vaccination
requirements.
Children of returning residents entering the United States are: 
Children born abroad after the parent has been issued an immigrant visa and while the parent is
applying for admission to the United States.
Children born abroad during the temporary visit abroad of a mother who is a national or
permanent resident of the United States. 
9. Internationally Adopted Orphans[35]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1896/2618