refugee must establish compliance with the vaccination requirements at the time of adjustment of
status. The refugee must submit the vaccination record portion completed by a designated civil
surgeon. State and local health departments may qualify for a blanket designation as civil surgeons for
the purpose of completing the vaccination record for refugees applying for adjustment of status.[1]
Certified copies of arrest/court records (if applicable) 
An applicant must submit an original of ficial statement by the arresting agency or a certified court
order for all arrests, detentions or convictions, regardless of whether the arrest, detention or conviction
occurred in the United States or elsewhere in the world.
Application by Refugee for W aiver of Grounds of Excludability ( Form I-602 ) (if applicable)
B. Supplemental Documentation
Supplemental documentation is often submitted by the applicant but is not required. This may include
the following: 
Arrival/Departure Document (Form I-94), with appropriate endorsement
Birth certificate, when obtainable 
See the Department of State Reciprocity Tables for information on the availability of identity
documents in particular countries and during specific time periods. There may be other instances in
which a birth certificate is unobtainable because of country conditions or personal circumstances.
In these instances, af fidavits may be submitted to establish the applicant’ s identity . An of ficer may also
review the A-file to check for a birth certificate that the applicant may have submitted with the refugee
application or for other evidence submitted at the time of the interview to establish the applicant’ s
identity . 
Copy of passport(s), when obtainable 
In most instances a refugee will be unable to produce of copy of his or her passport. There may be
other instances in which a passport is unobtainable due to country conditions, personal
circumstances, or the fact that the applicant may have never possessed a passport. In these cases, a
copy of a passport is not required and an of ficer may use evidence in the A-file to verify the applicant’ s
identity .
An of ficer should review any supplemental documentation submitted to ensure it is consistent with the
documentation contained in the A-file. Since identity is already established during the adjudication of
the refugee application, a birth certificate or passport is not required at the time of adjustment. 
Nevertheless, if the applicant submits any of these documents, the of ficer must address and resolve
any discrepancies at the time of adjudication. In all cases, an of ficer should give considerable weight8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1801/2618