may have already undergone a medical exam overseas. In this case, the adjustment applicant may
not need to repeat the medical exam in the United States or may only need to undergo the vaccination
assessment. 
If Form I-693  is required, the of ficer should carefully review the form to ensure it is properly completed
and that the results of the immigration medical examination documented on the form are still valid for
adjustment purposes.[53]
If Form I-693  is properly completed and the medical results still valid, the of ficer should review the
form to assess whether the applicant is inadmissible based on any health-related ground.[54]
2. Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A  of the INA  (Form I-864)[55]
Most immediate relative and family-based immigrants, and some employment-based immigrants, are
inadmissible as likely to become a public charge unless they submit an Affidavit of Support ( Form I-
864) with their adjustment application. The instructions for Form I-864 provide detailed information
about who is required to submit an Affidavit of Support. 
The of ficer must review the Affidavit of Support documentation to ensure the applicant and his or her
sponsor meets the Affidavit of Support requirements, including that: 
The sponsor(s) signed the Affidavit of Support; 
The sponsor ’s income meets or exceeds 125% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines;[56] 
The sponsor submitted his or her most recent year ’s tax returns (Note: Older years are not
acceptable in lieu of the most recent year ’s tax return. If a copy of a tax return is submitted, then
copies of W -2s or 1099s must also be submitted. If an IRS transcript is submitted, then W -2s or
1099s are not needed.);
There is an af fidavit of support from both sponsors, if there is a joint sponsor;
Sponsor and joint sponsor provided proof of citizenship or permanent resident status; and
Sponsor and joint sponsor must be domiciled in the United States or a U.S. territory or
possession.
In addition, if a sponsor is using assets to meet the requirements, the assets must total:
For a spouse: Three times the dif ference in the sponsor ’s income and the 125% needed
according to the poverty guidelines.
For any other relative: Five times the dif ference in the sponsor ’s income and the 125% needed
according to the poverty guidelines.
If the of ficer determines that required documentation is missing or that the petitioner fails to execute a
sufficient Form I-864 or Form I-864EZ that meets the requirements of INA  213A, the of ficer may issue
an RFE requesting the missing evidence, including the need for a joint sponsor to execute a Form I-
864 when applicable.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1467/2618