An applicant who gives false testimony to obtain any immigration benefit during the statutory period
cannot establish GMC.[33] False testimony occurs when the applicant deliberately intends to deceive
the U.S. Government while under oath in order to obtain an immigration benefit. This holds true
regardless of whether the information provided in the false testimony would have impacted the
applicant’ s eligibility . The statute does not require that the benefit be obtained, only that the false
testimony is given in an attempt to obtain the benefit.[34]
While the most common occurrence of false testimony is failure to disclose a criminal or other adverse
record, false testimony can occur in other areas. False testimony may include, but is not limited to,
facts about lawful admission, absences, residence, marital status or infidelity , employment,
organizational membership, or tax filing information. 
2. Three Elements of False T estimony
There are three elements of false testimony established by the Supreme Court that must exist for a
naturalization application to be denied on false testimony grounds:[35]
Oral Statements
The “testimony” must be oral. False statements in a written application and falsified documents,
whether or not under oath, do not constitute “testimony .”[36] However , false information provided orally
under oath to an of ficer in a question-and-answer statement relating to a written application is
“testimony .”[37] The oral statement must also be an af firmative misrepresentation. The Supreme Court
makes it clear that there is no “false testimony” if facts are merely concealed, to include incomplete but
otherwise truthful answers.
Oath
The oral statement must be made under oath in order to constitute false testimony .[38] Oral
statements to of ficers that are not under oath do not constitute false testimony . 
Subjective Intent to Obtain an Immigration Benefit
The applicant must be providing the false testimony in order to obtain an immigration benefit. False
testimony for any other reason does not preclude the applicant from establishing GMC. 
F. Prostitution
An applicant may not establish GMC if he or she has engaged in prostitution, procured or attempted to
procure or to import prostitutes or persons for the purpose of prostitution, or received proceeds from
prostitution during the statutory period.[39] The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) has held that to
“engage in” prostitution, one must have engaged in a regular pattern of behavior or conduct.[40] The8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2411/2618