Timeframe for Response
The maximum response time for an RFE is 12 weeks (84 days); regulations prohibit of ficers from
granting additional time to respond to an RFE.[48]
However , the regulations permit USCIS to assign flexible timeframes for benefit requestors to respond
to an RFE.[49] To ensure consistency , officers should follow standard timeframes but may reduce the
response time on a case-by-case basis after obtaining supervisory concurrence. This discretion
should only be used when warranted by circumstances as determined by the of ficer and the
supervisor .
The RFE must clearly state the deadline by which the requested initial or additional evidence must be
submitted to USCIS.
Regulations govern the ef fect of service, which may be in person, by ordinary mail, or electronically .
[50] When USCIS serves an RFE by ordinary mail, the service of the RFE is complete upon the benefit
requestor on the day that USCIS physically mails the RFE.[51] When USCIS serves an RFE by
ordinary mail, an RFE response is timely if USCIS receives it no more than 3 days after the prescribed
period. This provides a total of 87 days after USCIS mails the RFE, for USCIS to receive an RFE
response.
Further , USCIS applies the regulatory definition of day[52] when reviewing a mailed RFE response for
timeliness. Where USCIS receives the response on a Monday or on the next business day after a
federal holiday , USCIS considers the response to be timely if the deadline fell on the preceding
Saturday , Sunday , or federal holiday . As such, when the last day of the filing period falls on a Saturday ,
Sunday , or federal holiday , the RFE response period is extended until the end of the next business
day that is not a Saturday , Sunday , or federal holiday .
USCIS considers a response to an RFE that is issued through the USCIS online system to be
received on the date it is electronically filed through the individual’ s (or attorney or representative’ s)
online account, regardless of whether the day is on a weekend or federal holiday .
Additional mailing time (14 days) should be given to benefit requestors residing outside the United
States or when USCIS mails an RFE from an international USCIS field of fice.
Standard T imeframes
In compliance with the regulations, the guidelines in the table below provide standard timeframes for
benefit requestors to respond to RFEs.[53] These standard timeframes do not apply to circumstances
in which a fixed maximum response time is specified by regulation.[54]
Standard Timeframes for Response to an RFE8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 279/2618