2” x 2” in color with full face, frontal view;
On a white to of f-white background, printed on thin paper with a glossy finish; and
Be un-mounted and un-retouched.
The photographs must have been taken within 30 days of filing.[1]
2. Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status (Form I-485)
Aliens apply for permanent resident status by filing Form I-485  at the appropriate time with the correct
fee and necessary documentation to establish eligibility .
3. Birth Certificate
A copy of the applicant’ s foreign birth certificate or suf ficient secondary evidence of birth must be
submitted to establish the applicant’ s country of citizenship for visa chargeability , identity , and
existence of derivative relationships.[2]Each foreign birth certificate must include a certified English
translation.[3]
Officers should check the Department of State's Country Reciprocity Schedule  to determine availability
of birth certificates as well as acceptable secondary evidence of birth for specific countries.
4. Evidence of Admission or Parole
In most cases, an adjustment applicant is required to provide evidence of inspection and admission or
parole.[4]Typical documents that prove inspection and admission or parole include: 
Copy of the entry or parole stamps in the applicant’ s passport issued by U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP);
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94); 
Form I-94 issued by USCIS at the bottom of a Notice of Action (Form I-797); or
Authorization for Parole of an Alien into the United States (Form I-512 or I-512L).
If an applicant appears at an interview with none of the above evidence but claims to have been
“waved in” at the port of entry (POE), the applicant may still be considered to have been inspected and
admitted in some cases.[5]The burden of proof is on the applicant to provide suf ficient evidence to
establish eligibility .[6]
5. Affidavit of Support and Related Forms (Form I-864, I-864A, and I-864EZ)
An af fidavit of support is required for most immediate relative and family-based immigrants. The
affidavit of support is also required for any employment-based immigrant whose petitioner is the
applicant’ s spouse, parent, child, adult son or daughter , or sibling and in which the applicant’ s family8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1446/2618