circumstances.[27] The CPR and petitioning spouse should submit an explanation for the untimely
filing and any supporting documentation at the time of the initial filing.
If there is no explanation included with the initial filing, the of ficer issues a Request for Evidence
(RFE). If there is no response to the RFE, the of ficer denies the petition for abandonment (no
response) for failing to comply with the filing requirements.[28]
If an explanation for the untimely filing is provided, the of ficer evaluates the explanation in relation to
the time of eventual filing. The of ficer also reviews any accompanying documentary evidence
submitted in support of the explanation for the late filing, if any , to determine whether there is good
cause and extenuating circumstances for the late filing.[29] Supporting documentary evidence may not
be necessary if the explanation for the late filing is acceptable on its face.
Good cause and extenuating circumstances for filing an untimely joint petition are not defined by the
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). Good cause and extenuating circumstances may include, but
are not limited to:
Hospitalization; 
Long-term illness; 
Death of a family member and bereavement;
Recent birth of a child; 
Legal or financial problems;  
Providing care for someone; 
Serious family emergency;  
Work commitment; or
A family member on active duty with the U.S. armed forces.
Forgetting to file, absent other factors, generally does not constitute good cause and extenuating
circumstances.
If USCIS determines that the CPR and petitioning spouse have established good cause and
extenuating circumstances, then USCIS proceeds with adjudication of the case. If USCIS determines
that the CPR and petitioning spouse have failed to establish good cause and extenuating
circumstances, then USCIS denies the case for failure to comply with the filing requirements.[30]
D. Overseas on Military or Government Orders
In general, the CPR spouse and petitioning spouse must jointly file the Form I-751  within the 90-day
window before the 2-year anniversary of obtaining CPR status. However , if the CPR or petitioning
spouse or stepparent is stationed or deployed overseas as a result of of ficial military or government
orders, the requisite filing period does not begin until the CPR or petitioning spouse or stepparent on
military or government orders returns to the United States or is no longer on active duty . However ,8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1374/2618