All previous unexpired U.S. passport numbers and alien registration numbers (A-numbers);
An explanation for requesting revocation, including reasons for the request, analysis of the facts
and dates used in determining that the passport should be revoked, and evaluation of evidence
indicating that the applicant did not acquire U.S. citizenship;
Copies of all documentary evidence in support of the request, including certified translations of
any documents written or originally prepared in a foreign language; and
The contact information of the USCIS of fice making the request.
Adjudication of Application with Revocation Request
After reviewing the case on the merits and requesting a revocation of a U.S. passport from DOS, the
officer generally may not complete the adjudication of the Form N-600  until DOS responds.
If DOS notifies USCIS that it does not intend to revoke the passport, USCIS approves the Form N-
600.[52] However , in cases with unusual or complex circumstances, USCIS may further consult with
DOS.
If USCIS has evidence indicating that a U.S. passport submitted as evidence was obtained or issued
illegally , fraudulently , or erroneously , and the passport was valid at the time of filing, but is expired at
the time of adjudication, the of ficer should review the case with USCIS counsel and DOS before
adjudicating.[53]
If DOS revokes the U.S. passport, the of ficer denies the application in cases where the applicant does
not otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for issuance of a Certificate of Citizenship.
I. Documentation and Evidence
The applicant must submit the following required documents unless the USCIS administrative record
already contains such documents, or they do not apply:
The applicant’ s birth certificate or record; 
Marriage certificate of applicant’ s parents, if applicable; 
Death certificate of applicant’ s parent or parents, if applicable; 
Proof of termination of any previous marriage of each parent if either parent was previously
married and divorced or widowed. For example, this could include a divorce decree, a legal
separation order , or a death certificate;
Evidence of U.S. citizenship of applicant’ s parent or parents, such as a birth certificate showing
birth in the United States, Certificate of Naturalization, Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240),
a valid unexpired U.S. passport, or a Certificate of Citizenship;
Documents verifying legitimation according to the laws of the applicant’ s residence or domicile or
biological U.S. citizen father ’s residence or domicile if the child was born out of wedlock;
Documentation of legal custody in the case of divorce, legal separation, or adoption;[54]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2522/2618