Therefore, in order to ensure consistency in the adjudication of V AWA self-petitions, USCIS field
offices that believe a self-petition should be reviewed for possible revocation must return it to the
appropriate service center for review and decision on the revocation.
2. USCIS Field Office – Officer ’s Request for Review of an Approved Self-Petition
Officers in USCIS field of fices adjudicating an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust
Status ( Form I-485 ) based on an approved V AWA self-petition generally may not inquire about
instances of abuse or extreme cruelty or attempt to re-adjudicate the merits of the underlying
approved self-petition. If, however , officers find or obtain new information that leads them to
reasonably believe that the approval of the self-petition should be revoked, they must prepare a
detailed memorandum for their supervisor .
The of ficer must explain why the self-petition should be reviewed for possible revocation, and the
memorandum must state what the new information is and how USCIS obtained it. Information is not
considered new if it was available to the service centers at the time of the approval of the self-petition.
Officers must keep in mind the 8 U.S.C. 1367  confidentiality provisions preventing USCIS from making
an adverse determination using information provided solely by an abuser , a family member of the
abuser living in the same household, or someone acting on the abuser ’s behalf, as well as the
prohibition on the unauthorized disclosure of information related to a protected person, including
acknowledgment that a self-petition exists.[6]
3. USCIS Field Office – Supervisory Review
If after reviewing the of ficer’s memorandum, the supervisor concurs with the of ficer’s recommendation
to revoke the approval of the self-petition, the supervisor must sign the memorandum and forward it
along with the A-File to the appropriate service center with an attention to “V AWA I-360.”
4. Service Center V AWA I-360 Unit – Supervisory Review
A VAWA I-360 supervisor at the service center must review the field of fice memorandum and the
related file to determine whether to initiate the revocation process or to reaf firm the self-petition. If the
supervisor disagrees with the recommendation of the field of fice and decides to reaf firm the self-
petition, a separate memorandum must be prepared explaining why the self-petition was reaf firmed.
The service center then returns the memorandum to the USCIS field of fice that made the
recommendation. If the supervisor agrees with the recommendation to revoke the approval of the self-
petition, the service center issues a notice of intent to revoke the approval to the self-petitioner .
The service center is expected to complete its review process on an expedited basis. In all cases, self-
petitions that are sent to a service center from a USCIS field of fice or to a USCIS field of fice from a
service center must be accompanied by a memorandum that is signed by the appropriate supervisor .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 813/2618