death of the qualifying relative is treated as the functional equivalent of a finding of extreme hardship.
[13]
Section 204(l) also applies in the case of widows and widowers of U.S. citizens whose pending or
approved petition was converted to a Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-
360),[14] including if the petition later reverts to a Form I-130  petition based on a
subsequent remarriage.[15]
D. Effect of Hardship Experienced by a Person who is not a Qualifying Relative
On its own, hardship to a non-qualifying relative[16] cannot satisfy the extreme hardship requirement.
In some cases, however , the hardship experienced by non-qualifying relatives can be considered as
part of the extreme hardship determination, but only to the extent that such hardship af fects one or
more qualifying relatives.[17]
1. Hardship to the Applicant
Except for certain applicants who are V iolence Against W omen Act (V AWA) self-petitioners, applicants
for the waivers enumerated in Chapter 1 may not meet the relevant extreme hardship requirements by
establishing hardship to themselves. In cases in which applicants who are not V AWA self-petitioners
submit evidence of hardship to themselves, of ficers should consider the alleged hardships only
as they af fect the applicants’  qualifying relatives. 
For example, consider an applicant who indicates he suf fers from a medical condition for which he
would be unable to obtain necessary medical treatment in his home country . The applicant provides
medical documentation about his condition and Department of State (DOS) information on country
conditions that corroborate his statements. Because the applicant is not a qualifying relative, his
claims alone cannot meet the extreme hardship requirement of the waiver . 
However , the applicant’ s condition and prospective situation may show that denial of his admission
would have a significant emotional or financial impact on one or more qualifying relatives in the United
States. The USCIS of ficer may consider such impacts when determining whether the qualifying
relative(s) would experience extreme hardship upon the applicant’ s denial of admission.
2. Hardship to Other Non-Qualifying Relatives
Similarly , if the applicant claims hardship to an individual who is not a qualifying relative for purposes
of the relevant waiver , the of ficer should consider the alleged hardship only as it af fects one or
more qualifying relatives.
For example, consider an applicant who is married to a U.S. citizen with whom she has a 5-year-old
child with a disability . Unless the relevant waiver allows for her child to serve as a qualifying relative,
the USCIS of ficer may not consider the hardship to the child if the applicant is denied admission.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2119/2618