1. Same Job Opportunity
The job opportunity of fered by the successor must be the same as the job opportunity originally
offered on the permanent labor certification.
The job of fered in the successor-in-interest petition by the successor must remain unchanged with
respect to the rate of pay , metropolitan statistical area, job description, and job requirements specified
on the permanent labor certification. USCIS denies successor-in-interest claims where the position
with the successor is changed such that the rate of pay , job description, or requirements specified on
the permanent labor certification no longer relate to the labor market test.[9]
In other words, of ficers should deny any successor claim where the changes to the rate of pay , job
description, or job requirements, as stated on permanent labor certification, if made at the time that the
permanent labor certification was filed with DOL, could have af fected the number or type of available
U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity . However , an increase in the rate of pay due to the
passage of time does not af fect the successor-in-interest claim.
The job opportunity must also remain valid and available from the time of the filing of the permanent
labor certification with DOL  until the issuance of an immigrant visa abroad or the beneficiary's
adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident while in the United States.[10] Otherwise, a new test
of the labor market and new permanent labor certification application by the successor employer is
required.
The original job opportunity ceases to exist if, at any time before the transfer of ownership, the
predecessor ceases business operations entirely or even partially so that the beneficiary's services
are no longer required or the business operation in which the job opportunity was originally of fered has
a substantial lapse in business operations after the transfer of ownership.
Example
A predecessor was involved in the operation of a restaurant, and the job opportunity specified on the
permanent labor certification is for a specialty cook. The successor acquires the business and closes
the restaurant for extensive renovations. The restaurant reopens 6 months later . In this case, the
original job opportunity is no longer valid, as there was a substantial lapse in business operations after
the transfer of ownership.
The successor would have to conduct a new test of the labor market for the job opportunity through
the filing of a permanent labor certification application with DOL. Conversely , if, in the example
described above, the restaurant did not close during the renovations to the property but continued
business operations in a manner that would require the beneficiary's services as a specialty cook,
then the job of fer would remain valid during the business transition and no new permanent labor
certification would be required.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1096/2618