basis of extraordinary ability or achievement; as an entertainer; or , if applicable, on the basis of
providing essential support to certain O or P  nonimmigrants.[1]
Even if a camera person or other workers receive no payment from sources in the United States and
the film or video footage produced is solely for foreign distribution as entertainment or advertisement,
applicants under such circumstances may not qualify under the foreign information media
representative visa classification. 
B. Nonfiction Documentaries
Increasingly , because of the growing popularity of documentary-type biographies and similar nonfiction
film productions, the distinction between commercial filmmaking for entertainment and genuine news
gathering is less clear . For example, filmed biographies may be regarded as documentary filmmaking
or as news gathering. In adjudicating such cases, the of ficer should consider whether the intended use
is journalistic, informational, or educational, as opposed to entertainment. The of ficer should also
consider the foreign distribution of the film or video footage in addition to other factors, including the
timeliness of the project relative to the subject event.
C. Intended Use
An of ficer should examine the type of organization that employs the foreign information media
representative and the proposed foreign distribution of the film or other produced material. Applicants
should not use the foreign information media representative visa classification as a way of avoiding
mandatory consultation required to obtain visa classification on the basis of extraordinary ability or
achievement or as an entertainer .[2]
Footnotes
[^ 1] See INA 101(a)(15)(O)  for visa classification based on extraordinary ability or achievement (O
visa category). See INA 101(a)(15)(P)  for visa classification based on being an entertainer (P  visa
category).
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 214.2(o)(5) . See 8 CFR 214.2(p)(7) .
Chapter 4 - Family Members
A foreign information media representative’ s spouse and unmarried children (under age 21) may
accompany the foreign media representative and be admitted under the “I” nonimmigrant visa
classification.[1] If approved, such dependents may attend school in the United States without
changing to F-1 nonimmigrant student status. However , the dependents are not authorized to work in
the United States while in the foreign information media representative dependent status. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 466/2618