If the principal petitioner or qualifying family member has failed to establish one of the eligibility
requirements, USCIS issues a Request for Evidence (RFE) to the petitioner . Petitioners have the
opportunity to submit additional information to address deficiencies or concerns identified in the RFE.
Placement on the waiting list does not guarantee a grant of U nonimmigrant status. USCIS may deny
a petition for U nonimmigrant status if USCIS determines the petitioner is ineligible. For example,
officers may deny a petition for U nonimmigrant status where acts of criminality or immigration
violations occurring after a petitioner was placed on the waiting list trigger inadmissibility grounds and
USCIS does not favorably exercise its discretion to waive those grounds. Of ficers may also deny a
petition where a certifier has withdrawn the Form I-918, Supplement B  after USCIS placed the
petitioner on the waiting list.
C. Order of Adjudication
Neither Congress nor USCIS anticipated filings to significantly exceed the statutory cap every year .
The waiting list was first created as an intermediate mechanism for a small number of petitioners who
could not be granted U nonimmigrant status in a fiscal year due to the limited number of visa numbers
allotted under the statutory cap.[4] The BFD process was created as an additional mechanism to
provide petitioners with bona fide petitions with employment authorization and deferred action, which
are benefits equal to those accorded to petitioners placed on the waiting list.
Although current regulatory language notes the prioritization of petitioners placed on the waiting list for
grants of U nonimmigrant status under the statutory cap as visas become available,[5] the regulation
also clearly envisions “the oldest petitions receiving the highest priority” for such visa numbers.
To best reconcile these regulatory provisions with the BFD policy , and to maintain fairness between
petitioners placed on the waiting list and petitioners issued BFD EADs, USCIS prioritizes all petitions
for adjudication of U nonimmigrant status under the statutory cap in the order they were received,
ensuring older petitions maintain their priority over newer petitions.
Consequently , when U nonimmigrant visas become available each fiscal year , USCIS draws from both
BFD recipients and waitlisted petitioners, in order of filing date with the oldest filings receiving highest
priority , to meet the statutory cap.
D. Decision
1. Approval
Petitioners Living Inside the United States
Upon approval, principal petitioners and their qualifying family members living in the United States
receive a grant of U nonimmigrant status, valid for a period of no more than 4 years.
Principal Petitioners8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 745/2618