In some cases, a derivative asylee who had a Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 )
processed overseas may have had a Class A medical condition that was waived for purposes of
admission as an asylee. In these instances, the waiver does not carry through to adjustment and the
applicant must submit to a new medical examination to determine whether the Class A medical
condition has been resolved.
2. Unlawful Presence Considerations
An unlawful presence exception applies during the period of time in which the asylee had a bona fide,
pending asylum application. The time period that the applicant’ s bona fide asylum application was
pending should not be included in any unlawful presence calculation,[1] provided the applicant was not
employed without authorization during such time period. Unauthorized employment would disqualify
the asylee from this exception.[2]
While departures from the United States may trigger an unlawful presence bar , an of ficer may
consider a waiver for unlawful presence either through submission of a waiver application ( Form I-
602), or in conjunction with the adjustment of status application, in instances in which a waiver
application is not requested. If the of ficer does not request a waiver application, the of ficer should
notate any waiver granted on the adjustment of status application. However , the Board of Immigration
Appeals held on April 17, 2012 that travel on advance parole for a pending adjustment applicant will
not trigger the unlawful presence bar .[3]
C. Inadmissibility Grounds that May Not Be W aived
While waivers are generally available for most of the grounds listed in Section B, Applicable
Inadmissibility Grounds,[4] the following grounds of inadmissibility cannot be waived:
Controlled Substance Traffickers – INA 212(a)(2)(C)
Espionage; Sabotage; Illegal Export of Goods, Technology , or Sensitive Information; Unlawful
Overthrow or Opposition to U.S. Government – INA 212(a)(3)(A)  
Terrorist Activities – INA 212 (a)(3)(B)  (Note: Exemptions for some of these grounds exist)
Adverse Foreign Policy Impact – INA 212(a)(3)(C)
 Participants in Nazi Persecutions or Genocide – INA 212(a)(3)(E)
An of ficer should deny the adjustment application where no waiver or exemption is available due to
the type of inadmissibility found. 
National Security Issues
In the event that the adjudicating of ficer identifies at any stage one or more national security
indicator(s) or concerns unknown at the time of the grant of asylum, the of ficer should refer to USCIS
guidance on disposition of national security cases. The of ficer should also follow current USCIS8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1818/2618