public policy . A common law marriage may be considered a legally valid marriage for the purpose of
establishing V AWA eligibility .
Examples of evidence of a legal marriage include, but are not limited to:
A marriage certificate issued by civil authorities;[30]
Common law marriage announcements or certificates;
Affidavits and photos of the wedding ceremony;
Demonstrating a common law marriage if no certificate or announcement is available in states
where common law marriages may be contracted; or
Any other credible evidence to establish a marital relationship.
If self-petitioners were previously married, they must submit evidence to establish that all of their prior
marriages were legally terminated, and that they were legally free to enter a valid marriage with the
abuser .[31] If the U.S. citizen or LPR spouse was previously married, self-petitioners should submit
evidence, if available, to establish that all of their spouse’ s prior marriages were legally terminated.[32]
If the U.S. citizen or LPR spouse’ s prior marriages were not legally terminated, however , self-
petitioners may continue to be eligible as intended spouses.[33]
A civil authority must have issued the marriage termination document (such as a divorce decree or an
annulment) for it to be considered valid. Of ficers should refer to the U.S. Department of State’ s
Foreign Affairs Manual  and U.S. V isa: Reciprocity and Civil Documents by Country  webpage for
country-specific information regarding the legal termination of any marriage that occurred or was
terminated outside the United States.
Note that if a divorce decree requires a waiting or revocable period that has not concluded (for
example, a “nisi” period in a domestic decree or an “idda” period in a foreign decree), the decree is not
considered final and the marriage has not been legally terminated.[34] 
Examples of evidence of a legally terminated marriage may include, but are not limited to:
A final decree of divorce;
A decree of annulment;
A death certificate; or
Any other credible evidence to establish a terminated marriage.
Intended Spouse
VAWA protects “intended spouses” who believed that they entered into a valid marriage, but the
marriage was invalid solely due to the abusive U.S. citizen or LPR’ s bigamy or polygamy .[35] To be
eligible as intended spouses, self-petitioners must have believed that they entered into a legally valid
marriage with the U.S. citizen or LPR. Therefore, USCIS focuses its inquiry on the intent of the self-
petitioner and not on the intent of the abuser .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 755/2618