Facilities of an organization[46] that represents petitioners and applicants before DHS; or
Facilities where USCIS personnel cannot protect secure documents.
USCIS employees must not solicit a gift (including use of facilities to hold an administrative
naturalization ceremony) from any non-federal entity .[47] However , USCIS may accept an unsolicited
gift with the concurrence of the USCIS Of fice of the Chief Counsel’ s Ethics Division and approval of
the USCIS Director .
Generally , USCIS would not use a donated facility for ceremonies from a prohibited source.[48]
1. Submission of One-T ime Offer to Donate Facility
The donor must submit an invitation letter (on the organization’ s letterhead) to the Field Operations
Directorate at least 4 weeks in advance of the ceremony date to guarantee timely processing.
In addition to the donor ’s submission, an of ficer must submit Gift Of fer Donation Request (Form G-
1477)[49] for approval.
2. Submission of Multi-Date Offers to Donate Facilities
Certain organizations qualify for multi-date gift of fer approvals. These include non-federal, nonprofit
organizations that USCIS has approved previously for gift of fers. In order to qualify for multi-date gift
approval, the donor must:
Have a history of donating use of venue for naturalization ceremonies that were conducted
without negative incident;
Be unlikely to undergo changes of ownership or mission; and
Submit an invitation letter (on the organization’ s letterhead) that specifies the number of
ceremonies to be held at the donated venue and the donated value[50] of the gift of fer. The
invitation letter does not have to identify specific dates of the ceremonies to be held.
The of ficer must indicate the total yearly value for all multi-date of fers submitted on the Gift Of fer
Donation Request (Form G-1477).[51] Notwithstanding a prior approval, changes in a donor ’s
ownership, mission, or operations may warrant denying use of venue space prospectively .
Duration of Approved Multi-Date Offers
Multi-date gift of fers are valid for 1 year from the time of approval of the request.
Subsequent Uses of Approved Multi-Date Offers
The donor of a previously approved multi-date gift of fer to donate use of facilities does not need to
submit a new submission for approval. New submissions for review and approval are only needed in
instances where:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2590/2618