An applicant must submit an original of ficial statement by the arresting agency or certified court order
for all arrests, detentions or convictions.
Application by Refugee for W aiver of Grounds of Excludability ( Form I-602 ) (if applicable) 
B. Supplemental Documentation and Evidence
Applicants often submit supplemental documentation although not required to do so. This may
include: 
Arrival/Departure Document (Form I-94), with appropriate endorsement
Birth certificate, when obtainable
See the Department of State Reciprocity Tables  for identity documents that cannot be obtained in
particular countries and during specific time periods. There may be other instances in which a birth
certificate is unobtainable because of country conditions or personal circumstances. In these
instances, an applicant may submit af fidavits to establish his or her identity . The of ficer may also
review the A-file to check for a birth certificate that the applicant submitted with the asylum application
or other evidence the applicant submitted at the time of the interview to establish his or her identity . 
Copy of passport(s), when obtainable
In many instances, an asylee will be unable to produce a copy of his or her passport. There may be
other instances in which a passport is unobtainable due to country conditions, personal circumstances
or the simple fact that the applicant never possessed a passport. In these cases, a copy of a passport
is not required and the of ficer may use evidence in the applicant’ s A-file to verify his or her identity .
The asylee’ s date of birth and nationality are established during the asylum application or relative
petition process.
The of ficer should review any supplemental documentation submitted by the applicant to ensure it is
consistent with the documentation contained in the A-file. Since identity is already established during
the asylum proceedings, a birth certificate or passport is not required at the time of adjustment.
Nevertheless, if the applicant submits any of these documents, the of ficer must address and resolve
any discrepancies at the time of adjudication. In all cases, considerable weight is given to the
documentation contained in the asylum packet or with the relative petition. 
C. Documentation Already Contained in the A-File
The original asylum application should already be in a principal applicant’ s A-file. A copy of the asylum
application should also be found in the A-file of each derivative asylee who was in the United States at
the time of asylum adjudication and was included on the asylum application. The relative petition
should be in a derivative asylee’ s A-file if the derivative asylee followed to join the principal and was
not included on the original asylum application.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1822/2618