National security concerns;[17] and
Public safety concerns, which include but are not limited to:
Murder , rape, or sexual abuse;
Offenses involving firearms, explosive materials, or destructive devices;[18]
Offenses relating to peonage, slavery , involuntary servitude, and traf ficking in persons;[19]
Aggravated assault;
An of fense relating to child pornography; and
Manufacturing, distributing, or selling of drugs or narcotics.[20]
Violent and dangerous crimes, such as those listed above, embody the very activities law enforcement
seeks to deter and prevent through cooperation facilitated by the U nonimmigrant status program.
Additionally , USCIS may determine on a case-by-case basis that other adverse factors weigh against
a favorable exercise of discretion. USCIS may also exercise discretion favorably notwithstanding the
above concerns if case-specific circumstances warrant it.
Recognizing that many factors may influence whether criminal activity is prosecuted and results in a
conviction, an arrest for a serious crime is relevant to whether USCIS should exercise its discretion
favorably . A determination about whether to favorably exercise discretion when there are indicators of
national security or public safety concerns requires a comprehensive review of the available evidence.
For example, of ficers may need to request additional evidence or information in certain cases where
security checks indicate that a petitioner has an arrest record.[21] Therefore, USCIS does not conduct
this in-depth, discretionary review during the BFD process. Instead, if USCIS determines that a
petitioner may pose a risk to national security or public safety , or has other relevant adverse factors
that would require further review , and therefore will not receive a BFD EAD, USCIS initiates a waiting
list adjudication and conducts a comprehensive discretionary review as part of the evaluation of Form
I-192  if one is submitted.
USCIS evaluates all evidence provided by petitioners regarding their arrest records before making
determinations for waiting list placement.[22] 
C. Adjudicative Process
USCIS evaluates all petitions for U nonimmigrant status filed by aliens living in the United States as
described above.[23] If USCIS determines a principal petitioner and any other qualifying family
members have a bona fide petition and warrant a favorable exercise of discretion, USCIS issues them
BFD EADs and grants deferred action.
USCIS initiates waiting list adjudication for petitioners who do not receive BFD EADs. When USCIS
determines a principal petitioner will not receive a BFD EAD, USCIS proceeds to a full adjudication for
waiting list placement for the principal petitioner and his or her qualifying family members.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 733/2618