A copy of the waiver application that contains all the required signatures, excluding the
supporting documentation that is not medically relevant;[3]
A copy of the medical examination documentation;[4]
A copy of the supporting medical report, if provided, detailing the physical or mental disorder that
is associated with the harmful behavior and the physician’ s recommendation regarding the
course and prospects of the treatment;[5] and
Copies of all other medical reports, laboratory results, and evaluations regardless of whether
they are connected to the mental or physical disorder with associated harmful behavior .   
3. Sending Documents to CDC
Officers should email the documents to cdcqap@cdc.gov .
To request expedited review , officers should indicate in the subject line of the email to CDC that the
request is “Urgent.” 
4. CDC Response
Once the documents are received by CDC, the documents are reviewed by CDC’ s consultant
psychiatrist and CDC will forward a response letter with its recommendation to the requesting USCIS
office.
CDC’ s usual processing time for review and response to the requesting USCIS of fice is approximately
4 weeks. If CDC’ s response appears delayed, the of ficer may contact CDC at cdcqap@cdc.gov  to
obtain a status update.
Upon receipt, the of ficer should review CDC’ s response to determine next steps. 
If CDC agrees in its response that the applicant has a Class A condition, CDC will send to the USCIS
requesting of fice CDC 4.422-1 forms, Statements in Support of Application for W aiver of Inadmissibility
Under Section 212(a)(1)(A)(iii)(I) or 212(a)(1)(A)(iii)(II) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. The
officer must provide the CDC 4.422-1 forms[6] to the applicant (or the applicant’ s sponsor) for
completion. Once the CDC forms are completed and returned to USCIS, the of ficer must return the
completed forms to CDC for review and endorsement.
Once CDC receives the completed forms, it reviews them to determine whether the applicant has
identified an appropriate U.S. health care provider and that the health care provider has completed the
forms. If the appropriate U.S. health care provider has been identified, CDC will endorse the forms and
return them to the requesting USCIS of fice. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2161/2618