Citation Employed by…Employed at
least…Additional Requirements
INA
101(a)
(27)(G)Panama Canal
Company or Canal
Zone government on
April 1, 1979Five years, as of
date of the
ratification of the
Panama Canal
Zone Treaty of
1977Personal safety , or the safety of their
spouse and children, is placed in
danger because of the nature of
the employment and the Panama
Canal Treaty
Aliens who qualify as a current or former employee of the U.S. Government in the Canal Zone[11]
might also qualify as a special immigrant employee or honorably retired employee of the
U.S. Government.[12] An applicant who is eligible under both categories may seek to adjust
under whichever category may be more advantageous.
Verifying the Underlying Basis to Adjust Status and Determining Ongoing Eligibility[13]
The Panama Canal Zone employee petition should already be adjudicated and approved when the
officer adjudicates the adjustment application. USCIS does not re-adjudicate the Panama Canal Zone
employee petition at the time of the adjudication of the adjustment application. However , the of ficer
should ensure that the applicant remains classified as a Panama Canal Zone employee and thus is
eligible to adjust as a Panama Canal Zone employee. As a result, there may be instances when
USCIS may require the applicant to provide additional evidence to show he or she continues to be
classified as a Panama Canal Zone employee. In other words, the of ficer must verify the status of any
underlying immigrant petition that forms the basis for adjustment.
2. Bars to Adjustment
Special immigrant Panama Canal Zone employees and their derivatives are ineligible for adjustment
of status if any of the bars to adjustment of status apply .[14]
3. Admissibility and W aiver Requirements
In general, an applicant who is inadmissible to the United States may only obtain LPR status if he or
she obtains a waiver or other form of relief, if available.[15] In general, if a ground of inadmissibility
applies, an applicant must apply for a waiver or other form of relief to overcome that inadmissibility .
[16] If a waiver or other form of relief is granted, USCIS may approve the application to adjust status if
the applicant is otherwise eligible. 
The following table specifies which grounds of inadmissibility apply and which do not apply to
applicants seeking LPR status based on the Panama Canal Zone employee classification.
Applicability of Grounds of Inadmissibility: Panama Canal Zone Employees8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1672/2618