obligations payable (in most cases) within 1 year , such as accounts payable, short-term notes
payable, and accrued expenses.[22] Where the petitioner shows net current assets during the relevant
period that are equal to or exceed the prof fered wage, the petitioner has generally demonstrated its
ability to pay that wage. USCIS generally does not consider total assets because total assets must be
balanced by the petitioner ’s liabilities and total assets may include assets that are not easily converted
into cash in order to pay the prof fered wage.
USCIS does not add net income to net current assets in determining a petitioner ’s ability to pay since
net income represents the sum of income remaining after all expenses were paid over a period of
time, such as a fiscal year , whereas net current assets denote a specific moment in time. Therefore,
the two metrics cannot be combined to establish a petitioner ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage.
If the petitioner has paid the beneficiary an amount that is less than the prof fered wage, then the
petitioner need only demonstrate that its net income or net current assets are equal to or greater than
the dif ference between the prof fered wage and the actual wage paid.
Net income and net current assets are generally calculated using a petitioner ’s federal income tax
returns. The Business Structures  overview provides more information on the most common business
forms or structures and the tax forms they file with the IRS.
Example
The priority date is January 1, 2009. The prof fered wage is $50,000. In addition to the petitioner ’s
federal tax returns, the record contains IRS Forms W -2 demonstrating that the petitioner paid the
beneficiary a $40,000 salary in 2009 and 2010. The petitioner can establish its ability to pay for 2009
and 2010 if its federal tax returns show either net income or net current assets equal to or greater than
$10,000 for each year .
3. Other Factors
The ability to pay analysis is more nuanced than simply reviewing wages paid, net income, and net
current assets. The petitioner may submit, or USCIS may request, additional evidence of the
petitioner ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage, including, but not limited to, profit or loss statements,
bank account records, or personnel records.[23] Any additional evidence submitted must establish,
when considered with the required initial evidence, the petitioner ’s ability to pay . Additional evidence of
the petitioner ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage must be credible and relevant.
Sometimes companies operate at a loss for a period to improve their business position in the long run.
For example, a company may not expect research and development costs on a product line to
generate revenue for several years. In those instances, the documentation should fully explain the
sources of funding for the entity (or unit) and the expected profit potential. Whether the petitioner can
demonstrate it has the ability to pay the beneficiary the wages described in the petition depends on
the specific facts presented and consideration of all of the circumstances.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1108/2618