a conditional approval notice with instructions on how to appear for biometrics submission and identity
verification, generally at that U.S. embassy or consulate as part of the process for obtaining travel
documentation.
Applicants Outside the United States
For those other than Canadian nationals traveling directly from Canada, if the applicant is outside the
United States when USCIS conditionally approves the application, the applicant must visit a U.S.
embassy or consulate to obtain travel documentation before appearing at a U.S. port of entry for a
final parole determination. USCIS may make a preliminary decision on the application before
collecting biometrics and issue a conditional approval notice with instructions on how to appear for
biometrics submission and identity verification at the requested U.S. embassy or consulate. The
applicant would be subject to U.S. Department of State (DOS) rules pertaining to the process for
obtaining travel documentation.
A Canadian national traveling directly from Canada to a U.S. port of entry may present an approved or
conditionally approved Application for Entrepreneur Parole ( Form I-941 ) at the U.S. port of entry
without first obtaining travel documentation from DOS. However , USCIS still requires the applicant to
submit biometrics before parole may be authorized. The conditional approval notice includes options
and instructions on how to complete the biometrics requirement in such circumstances.
Grant of Parole
Although advance authorization of parole by USCIS does not guarantee that the applicant will be
issued travel documentation by DOS or paroled by CBP  upon their appearance at a port of entry , with
a grant of advance parole, the applicant is issued a document authorizing travel (in lieu of a visa)
indicating that, so long as circumstances do not meaningfully change after USCIS conditionally
approves Form I-941, and DHS does not discover material information that was previously
unavailable, CBP’ s discretion to parole the individual at a port of entry will likely be exercised
favorably .
Work Authorization
An entrepreneur who is paroled into the United States is authorized for employment with the start-up
entity incident to the conditions of the parole.[3] It is not necessary for the parolee to apply for an
Employment Authorization Document.
2. Denials
If the applicant fails to establish that the applicant’ s presence in the United States will provide a
significant public benefit and that a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted, the of ficer denies the
application and notifies the applicant in writing of the specific reasons for a denial.[4] An applicant may8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 832/2618