which of the processes the adoptive parent (petitioner) follows. The processes are:
Hague Adoption Convention – for children from a country that is party to the Convention of 29
May 1993 on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption;[6]
Orphan (non-Hague) – for children from a country that is not party to the Hague Adoption
Convention; and
Family-based petition – for certain adopted children who have been in the legal custody of and
jointly resided with the adoptive parent(s) for at least 2 years.
A child may only immigrate through the family-based process if the child was already adopted.[7] The
orphan and Hague Adoption Convention processes provide the option for a child to immigrate to the
United States after an adoption outside of the United States or for the purpose of adoption in the
United States. 
2. Federal Agency Roles
Both USCIS and DOS play a role in the intercountry adoption and immigration process.
USCIS Roles
USCIS determines the:
Eligibility and suitability of the adoptive parents (for the Hague Adoption Convention and orphan
processes);
Eligibility of a child to immigrate to the United States (for all three of the processes); and
Eligibility of adoptees to receive a certificate of citizenship or to naturalize.
DOS Roles
The roles of DOS in intercountry adoption include the following:
Serves as the U.S. Central Authority for the Hague Adoption Convention. This role includes
monitoring accrediting entities to ensure that adoption service providers perform their functions
consistent with the Hague Adoption Convention and the Intercountry Adoption Act.[8]
Determines the eligibility of a child to immigrate to the United States for certain orphan petitions
filed outside the United States, completes the Determination on Child for Adoption (Form I-604)
for certain orphan petitions, and completes the final adjudication of certain Hague Adoption
Convention petitions at consular posts.
Adjudicates visa applications for adopted children to immigrate to the United States.
Adjudicates applications for U.S. passports.
3. Legislative History8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 872/2618