When USCIS Requires an Interview for Standalone Family-Based Immigrant V isa Petitions[3] 
Petitions where testimony is needed to resolve discrepancies in the record or to address concerns
regarding the reliability or credibility of evidence following an RFE or NOID.
Petitions for a spouse where the petitioner previously filed a spousal petition for a dif ferent
beneficiary .
Petitions for a spouse where either the petitioner or beneficiary was party to a prior denied, revoked,
terminated, or withdrawn spousal petition.
Petitions for a spouse where the LPR petitioner acquired permanent resident status through
marriage less than 5 years prior to filing for the current beneficiary .[5]
Petitions for a spouse where the marriage occurred while the beneficiary was in removal
proceedings.[6]
Petitions for a spouse that are adjudicated where, following an initial interview , it is determined that
the bona fides of the marriage are in question.
USCIS Field Operations Directorate (FOD) conducts most family-based immigrant visa petition
interviews. When a family-based immigrant visa petition is submitted to a USCIS Service Center after
intake and the case requires an interview , the Service Center refers the case, with an explanation of
the reason for the interview , to the local FOD of fice with jurisdiction over the case. The FOD of fice
schedules the interview according to its availability and completes adjudication of the case.
C. Decision
1. Approvals
If the petitioner properly files the petition in accordance with regulations and the form instructions and
demonstrates they meet eligibility requirements, then USCIS must approve the petition.[7] Generally ,
there is no discretionary analysis as part of the adjudication of a family-based immigrant petition, and
USCIS cannot deny these petitions as a matter of discretion.[8]
The alien’ s history or character is usually not relevant to the adjudication.[9] However , if during the
adjudication the of ficer encounters grounds of inadmissibility that are relevant for adjustment of status
or consular processing, the of ficer should document the specific grounds or factors for USCIS or the
U.S. Department of State (DOS) to review during the alien’ s application for adjustment of status or an
immigrant visa.
USCIS approves a Petition for Alien Relative ( Form I-130 )[10] if the petitioner establishes that they are
a U.S. citizen, U.S. national or lawful permanent resident (LPR) and a qualifying relationship exists
between the petitioner and the alien beneficiary .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1073/2618