Criterion 9: The person has commanded a high salary , or other significantly high
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field.[37]
Evidence relevant to demonstrating high remuneration may include, but is not limited to:
Tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for services;
Contract, job of fer letter , or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services;
and
Comparative wage or remuneration data for the person’ s field, such as geographical or
position-appropriate compensation surveys.
Considerations:
Evidence regarding whether the person's compensation is high relative to that of others working in
the field may take many forms. Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical or
position-appropriate compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay above the
compensation data. The following websites, among others, may be helpful in evaluating the relative
compensation for a given field:
The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Overview of BLS W age Data by Area and Occupation
webpage; and
The Department of Labor's Career One Stop  website.
When evaluating whether a comparison between the beneficiary’ s documented remuneration and
the remuneration in the survey is accurate, the following considerations, among others, may be
relevant:
The description of the occupation. Broad descriptions that include multiple occupations or
multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the field. For example,
“directors and producers” might be listed as a single category across industries, but evidence
that a film director receives high remuneration based on a broad range of occupational data
that include disparate occupations such as film director and radio show producer , may not be
sufficiently probative;
The validity of the survey . Some websites provide user-reported salary data, which may not be
a valid comparison if, for example, too few users reported their salaries or the data is
otherwise not credible or reliable;
Location and currency . Officers evaluate persons working outside of the United States based
on the wage statistics or comparable evidence relevant to the applicable work location, rather
than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary
would be considered high in the United States; and
Salary rate being measured. Of ficers consider whether the comparison data measures an
hourly rate or an annual salary . Another consideration is how that information compares to the
beneficiary’ s pay . Many artists are not paid an hourly rate but instead are paid a daily rate8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1159/2618