To demonstrate a qualifying relationship to the abusive U.S. citizen or LPR as an intended spouse, the
self-petitioner must submit evidence to establish the following requirements:
The self-petitioner believed a legal marriage was created with the U.S. citizen or LPR spouse
who was not already married and therefore free to enter into a valid marriage;
A marriage ceremony was actually performed;
The requirements for the establishment of a bona fide marriage were otherwise met; and
The apparent marriage between the self-petitioner and the U.S. citizen or LPR is not legitimate
solely because of the U.S. citizen’ s or LPR’ s other , preexisting marriage.[36]
USCIS considers a marriage certificate issued by civil authorities in the United States or abroad to be
evidence of the self-petitioner ’s intent. If self-petitioners were previously married, they must submit
evidence to demonstrate that all their prior marriages were legally terminated. Evidence of the
termination of all the abusive U.S. citizen’ s or LPR’ s prior marriages, however , is not required to
establish eligibility as an intended spouse.
Intended spouses in common law marriages are eligible as V AWA self-petitioners as long as they can
demonstrate the requirements listed above, including that a marriage ceremony was actually
performed.
Self-Petitioning Spouse Whose Child was Abused
A spouse of an abusive U.S. citizen or LPR is eligible to self-petition based on abuse committed by the
U.S. citizen or LPR against the spouse’ s child.[37] The abused child does not need to be the abuser ’s
child. If the self-petition is based on a claim that the self-petitioner ’s child was battered or subjected to
extreme cruelty committed by the U.S. citizen or LPR, the self-petitioner should submit evidence of a
relationship to the abused child, such as the child's birth certificate or other evidence demonstrating
the relationship (in addition to demonstrating the required marital relationship to the abuser).[38]
3. Self-Petitioning Child
Self-petitioning children may establish a qualifying relationship to their abusive U.S. citizen or LPR
parent if they are the biological child, stepchild, or adopted child of the abuser .[39] The child must be
unmarried and less than 21 years old when the self-petition is filed in order to be considered a child for
immigration purposes.[40] In certain circumstances, children who turn 21 years old prior to filing the
self-petition or while the self-petition is pending may remain eligible for V AWA benefits.[41] The self-
petitioner must remain unmarried, however , at the time of filing and when the self-petition is approved.
[42] To be considered unmarried, the self-petitioner must either never have been married or have
legally terminated all prior marriages.
Termination of the abuser's parental rights or a change in legal custody does not alter the child’ s
eligibility to self-petition, provided the petitioner meets the definition of the term “child” under8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 756/2618