Even if the adjustment applicant obtained conditional permanent residence, the fact that the marriage
was terminated due to death would make the applicant eligible to apply for a waiver of certain
requirements associated with conditional permanent resident (CPR) status.[29] The of ficer may grant
an eligible applicant permanent residence without conditions if the of ficer determines the marriage was
bona fide and entered into in good faith while the qualifying relative was alive.[30]
3. Discretionary Denials
INA 204(l)  gives USCIS discretion to deny a petition or application that may be approved despite the
qualifying relative’ s death if USCIS finds, as a matter of discretion, that approval would not be in the
public interest.[31] This exercise of discretion is unreviewable.[32]
Before denying a visa petition or adjustment application as a matter of discretion on the ground that
approval would not be in the public interest, an of ficer must consult with the appropriate USCIS
headquarters of fice or directorate through appropriate channels. 
Consultation is not required if the of ficer will deny the case solely on the traditional discretionary
factors that would have applied to the particular case, even if the qualifying relative were still alive. For
example, fraud or criminal grounds of inadmissibility that have not or cannot be waived, or security
grounds, may warrant denial as a matter of discretion under ordinary circumstances. Consultation is
not required in such a case. 
C. Motions to Reopen
INA 204(l)  does not require USCIS to reopen or reconsider any decision denying a petition or
application, if the denial had already become final before October 28, 2009. For a case denied
before that date, an applicant may file (with proper fee) an untimely motion to reopen the petition,
adjustment application, or waiver application that was denied if INA  204(l) allows approval of a still-
pending petition or application. 
The applicant should present new evidence, including: 
Proof of the relative’ s death; 
 Proof that the applicant was residing in the United States when the relative died; and 
 Proof that the applicant continues to reside in the United States. 
If the applicant establishes the proof required, an of ficer may favorably exercise discretion to reopen
the petition or application, and make a new decision in light of the law .
An alien present in the United States unlawfully does not accrue unlawful presence while a properly
filed adjustment application is pending. If USCIS grants a motion to reopen a denied adjustment
application under this section, the application will be pending again and is deemed to be pending from
the original date of filing. Therefore, reopening an adjustment application under INA 204(l)  will cure8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1515/2618