A. General Eligibility through One Year of Military Service during Peacetime
A person who has served honorably in the U.S. armed forces for one year at any time may be eligible
to apply for naturalization, which is sometimes referred to as “peacetime naturalization.”[1] While some
of the general naturalization requirements apply to qualifying members or veterans of the U.S. armed
forces seeking to naturalize based on one year of service,[2] other requirements may not apply or are
reduced. 
The applicant must establish that he or she meets all of the following criteria in order to qualify: 
The applicant must be 18 years of age or older .
The applicant must have served honorably at any time in the U.S. armed forces for a period or
periods totaling at least 1 year .
The applicant must be a lawful permanent resident (LPR) at the time of examination on the
naturalization application.
The applicant must meet certain residence and physical presence requirements.
The applicant must demonstrate an ability to understand English including an ability to read,
write, and speak English.
The applicant must demonstrate knowledge of U.S. history and government.
The applicant must demonstrate good moral character for at least five years prior to filing the
application until the time of his or her naturalization.
The applicant must have an attachment to the principles of the U.S. Constitution and be well
disposed to the good order and happiness of the U.S. during all relevant periods under the law .
B. Honorable Service
Qualifying military service is honorable active or reserve service in the U.S. Army , Navy , Marine Corps,
Air Force, Coast Guard, or Space Force. Service in the National Guard may also qualify .[3] Honorable
service means only service in the U.S. armed forces that is designated as honorable service by the
executive department under which the applicant performed that military service. In general,
international cadets attending U.S. military academies are not considered to have served in the U.S.
armed forces.[4]
INA 328 requires both honorable service and, if separated, that the applicant has been separated
under honorable conditions.[5] If the applicant has multiple separations from service, each separation
must be under honorable conditions, including discharges from periods of service not relied upon for
naturalization purposes.[6]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2534/2618