intent. The Attorney General has decreed that a finding of “moral turpitude” requires that the
perpetrator committed a reprehensible act with some form of guilty knowledge.[4]
The of ficer should consider the nature of the of fense in determining whether it is a CIMT .[5] In many
cases, the CIMT  determination depends on whether the relevant state statute includes one of the
elements that involves moral turpitude. For example, an of fense or crime may be a CIMT  in one state,
but a similarly named crime in another state may not be a CIMT  because of dif ferences in the
definition of the crime or of fense. The of ficer may rely on local USCIS counsel in cases where there is
a question about whether a particular of fense is a CIMT .
The table below serves as a quick reference guide on the general categories of CIMT s and their
respective elements or determining factors. The paragraphs that follow the table provide further
guidance on each category .
General Categories of Crimes Involving Moral Turpitude (CIMT s)
CIMT Category Elements of Crime
Crimes Against a PersonCriminal intent or recklessness, or is defined as morally
reprehensible by state (may include statutory rape)
Crimes Against PropertyInvolving fraud against the government or an individual (may
include theft, forgery , robbery)
Sexual and Family CrimesNo one set of principles or elements; see further explanation
below (may include spousal or child abuse)
Crimes Against Authority of
the GovernmentPresence of fraud is the main determining factor (may include
offering a bribe, counterfeiting)
Crimes Against a Person
Crimes against a person involve moral turpitude when the of fense contains criminal intent or
recklessness or when the crime is defined as morally reprehensible by state statute. Criminal intent or
recklessness may be inferred from the presence of unjustified violence or the use of a dangerous
weapon. For example, aggravated battery is usually , if not always, a CIMT . Simple assault and battery
is not usually considered a CIMT .
Crimes Against Property
Moral turpitude attaches to any crime against property which involves fraud, whether it entails fraud
against the government or against an individual. Certain crimes against property may require guilty
knowledge or intent to permanently take property . Petty theft, grand theft, forgery , and robbery are
CIMT s in some states.
Sexual and Family Crimes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2407/2618