Self-petitioning parents, however , whose U.S. citizen sons or daughters have denaturalized or lost or
renounced their U.S. citizenship after the self-petition is filed are no longer eligible for the self-petition.
[45] If a self-petitioning parent’ s self-petition was previously approved, it may be revoked in such
circumstances.
F. Lawful Permanent Resident’ s Naturalization
If abusive LPRs naturalize after their spouse or child files a self-petition, the self-petitioning spouse or
child is automatically reclassified as the spouse or child of a U.S. citizen.[46] The self-petitioner does
not need to file a new self-petition; the reclassification occurs regardless of whether the self-petition
remains pending or is approved at the time of the naturalization.[47] The self-petitioner is reclassified
even if the abusive spouse or parent acquires citizenship after a divorce or termination of parental
rights.[48]
G. Child T urning 21 Years Old
Generally , self-petitioning and derivative children must be under 21 years old and unmarried in order
to be eligible as self-petitioners or be included as derivative beneficiaries on the self-petition at the
time of filing.[49] If abused children turn 21 years old before they are able to file a self-petition,
however , they may continue to remain eligible to file the self-petition as a child in certain
circumstances as long as they remain unmarried.[50]
1. Self-Petitioning Child T urning 21 Years Old Before Filing the Self-Petition
In the past, otherwise eligible sons and daughters of U.S. citizens and LPRs were precluded from filing
a self-petition if they reached age 21 before the self-petition could be filed. The inability to file a self-
petition before turning 21 years old may have been due to a number of reasons, including the nature
of the abuse or the time period that the abuse took place.
The V iolence Against W omen and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (V AWA 2005),
however , amended the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) by adding a new provision that permitted
the late filing of a self-petition in certain circumstances to expand protections for abused children who
were unable to file a self-petition before turning 21 years old.[51]
Self-petitioning children may remain eligible to file a self-petition as a child even after turning 21 years
old but before turning 25 years old if they are unmarried and can demonstrate the following:
They were eligible to file the self-petition on the day before they turned 21; and
The abuse was one central reason for the delay in filing.[52]
Self-petitioners must have been qualified to file the self-petition on the day before they turned 21 years
old. This means that they must have met all eligibility requirements on that date. For example, if the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 795/2618