Type of Petitioner Required Evidence
membership listing on the parent organization’ s website that confirms
coverage under its exemption, or a letter from the IRS confirming the
coverage.
If the submitted IRS determination letter does not identify the
organization’ s tax exemption as a religious organization, then evidence
establishing its religious nature and purpose. Such evidence may
include, but is not limited to, the entity’ s articles of incorporation or
bylaws, flyers, articles, brochures, or other literature that describes the
religious purpose and nature of the organization.
Bona Fide
Organization
Affiliated with
Religious
DenominationA currently valid determination letter from the IRS establishing that the
organization is tax-exempt.
If the organization was granted tax-exempt status under IRC 501(c)(3)
as something other than a religious organization, then:
documentation that establishes the religious nature and purpose
of the organization, including, but not limited to, a copy of the
organizing instrument that specifies the purposes of the
organization, organizational literature, such as books, articles,
brochures, calendars, flyers, and other literature describing the
religious purpose and nature of the activities of the organization.
A Religious Denomination Certification signed by the religious
denominational entity (not the petitioner) that the petitioner is af filiated
with, which is part of the Form I-360 , certifying that the petitioning
organization is af filiated with the religious denomination.
5. Compensation Requirement
A religious worker must receive salaried or non-salaried compensation.[39] Salaried means receiving a
traditional form of compensation (that is, a paycheck). Non-salaried compensation includes support
such as, but not limited to, room, board, medical care, or transportation. The petitioner is required to
state how it intends to compensate the religious worker , and to submit the corresponding, verifiable
evidence described below .[40] A self-petitioning religious worker must submit evidence establishing
how the prospective employer intends to provide such compensation.[41]
The petitioner must submit IRS documentation of compensation, such as IRS Forms W -2 or tax
returns, if available. If IRS documentation is unavailable, then the petitioner must explain why it is
unavailable and submit comparable verifiable documentation.[42]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1332/2618