approval, USCIS must, on its own motion, reopen the case for a new decision in light of this new law .
[7]
2. Derivative Asylees Ineligible for Adjustment of Status
Divorced Spouse
A spouse who is divorced from the principal asylee is no longer a spouse of the principal and is no
longer eligible to adjust status as a derivative asylee.
Married Child
A child who is married either at the time of filing or at the time of adjudication of the adjustment of
status application is no longer considered a child of the principal and is no longer eligible to adjust
status as a derivative asylee. However , a child who was married after his or her grant of derivative
asylum status, but has since divorced (and is therefore unmarried at the time of filing for adjustment of
status) may qualify once again as the derivative child of the principal asylee, provided the child is
under 21 or eligible for the benefits of the Child Status Protection Act (CSP A).
Child 21 or Older and Not Eligible for Benefits under the Child Status Protection Act (CSP A)
Certain derivative children who have turned 21 years old and are not protected by the CSP A are no
longer eligible to adjust status as a derivative asylee. This is generally only seen in cases that
were filed prior to August 6, 2002. 
As of August 6, 2002, any derivative asylee child who had a pending refugee/asylee relative petition
(Form I-730 ), adjustment application ( Form I-485 ) or principal’ s asylum application ( Form I-589 ) on or
after that date had his or her age “frozen” as of the date the application was filed. This allows the
alien's continued classification as a child for purposes of both asylum and adjustment of status. Any
person who aged out prior to August 6, 2002 is not eligible for continuing classification as a child
unless one of these applications was pending on August 6, 2002. 
As a result of CSP A provisions, an unmarried child who is under 21 on the day the
principal asylee files the asylum application will remain eligible to be classified as a child as long as he
or she was eligible to be listed on the parent’ s asylum application prior to adjudication and is
unmarried at the time of adjudication. In determining continuing eligibility as a child for adjustment, the
officer need only verify that the derivative applicant’ s age was under 21 at the time the principal’ s
asylum application was filed and that the child is currently unmarried.
Principal Asylee has Naturalized
A principal asylee who has naturalized no longer meets the definition of a refugee.[8] Therefore, once
the principal has naturalized, a spouse or child is no longer eligible to adjust status as a
derivative asylee because they no longer qualify as the spouse or child of a refugee.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1814/2618