This document contains the biographic information and family relationships for the principal refugee
and each alien included in the case of the principal refugee. The family tree is completed by RSC staf f
under cooperative agreement with the DOS.
Referrals from the Of fice of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the
U.S. Embassy , or Nongovernmental Organization (NGO)
These documents contain biographical information, family relationships, organizational memberships,
political/social/religious af filiations, any detentions or imprisonments, the refugee claim, and
inadmissibility issues. This document is completed by UNHCR, the U.S. Embassy , or the referring
NGO.
Record of Medical Examination
This form documents the pre-departure medical examination of the alien. Any Class A conditions
would be noted, as would any recommendations for follow-up treatment.
B. Interview Criteria
The decision to interview an alien for a refugee-based adjustment of status application is made on a
case-by-case basis.[1] Interviews are generally required when an of ficer is unable to verify identity or
determine admissibility based solely on the immigration records, USCIS records and systems, or other
agency records or background checks available to the of ficer. Although the decision to conduct an
interview is made on a case-by-case basis, an of ficer should generally refer a case for interview if it
meets one or more of the following criteria:
The of ficer cannot verify the identity of the alien through the information in the A-file, other
USCIS records and systems, or other agency records or background checks;[2]
The of ficer can verify the identity of the alien through the information in the A-file, other USCIS
records and systems, or other agency records or background checks, but he or she is claiming a
new identity;
Immigration records are insuf ficient for the of ficer to determine whether the alien has refugee
status;
The alien is a beneficiary of an approved Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ), but, the
petition was approved when the alien was outside the United States, and he or she was not
interviewed before his or her arrival to the United States[3] or the petition was approved when
the alien was in the United States and was not interviewed before the petition was approved;
The alien’ s Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fingerprint check results indicate a record that
may cause the alien to be inadmissible, or the alien has had two unclassifiable fingerprint
responses;
Additional information is required from the alien to address potential admissibility issues or
assess potential inadmissibility waiver considerations;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1804/2618