On the other hand, knowledge generally may be considered specialized if a petitioner can
demonstrate through credible and relevant evidence that the knowledge possessed by the beneficiary
would be dif ficult to impart to another person without significant economic cost or inconvenience to the
petitioning organization.[5]
Depending on the totality of the circumstances, significant economic cost or inconvenience may be a
relevant factor . However , USCIS does not require a petitioner to establish significant economic cost or
inconvenience if it can otherwise establish specialized knowledge.
Specialized Knowledge Need Not Be Proprietary or Unique
Although specialized knowledge ordinarily cannot be knowledge generally possessed or easily
transferrable, it need not be proprietary or unique to the petitioning organization. A petitioner is not
required to demonstrate that it is the only company where the beneficiary could have acquired the
knowledge, or that it is the only company that trades in the technologies, techniques, products,
services, or processes that are the subject of the beneficiary’ s knowledge.
Although a petitioner may provide evidence that knowledge is proprietary or unique in support of its
claim that the knowledge is also special or advanced, and therefore specialized, the L-1B classification
does not require such a finding.
L-1B Classification Does Not Involve T est of U.S. Labor Market
The petitioner must ordinarily demonstrate that the beneficiary’ s knowledge is not generally or
commonly held in the relevant industry . Such a determination, however , does not involve a test of the
U.S. labor market. A petitioner is not required to demonstrate the lack of readily available workers to
perform the relevant duties in the United States.[6]
The relevant inquiry is not whether U.S. workers with the beneficiary’ s knowledge are available to the
employer; rather , it is whether there are so many such workers that the knowledge is generally or
commonly held in the relevant industry , and therefore not specialized. If there are numerous workers
in the United States who possess knowledge that is generally like the beneficiary’ s, it is the petitioner ’s
burden to establish that the beneficiary’ s knowledge nevertheless is truly specialized.
Specialized Knowledge Need Not Be Narrowly Held W ithin Petitioning Organization
Although comparisons with other employees of the petitioning organization may be useful in
determining whether the beneficiary’ s knowledge is special or advanced, such knowledge need not be
narrowly held within the petitioning organization. Multiple employees within a company may have
obtained the experience, training, or education necessary to possess the same type of specialized
knowledge. Some companies may use technologies or techniques that are so advanced or complex
that nearly all employees working on the relevant products or services possess specialized
knowledge.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 480/2618