B. Background
The law in ef fect at the time of birth determines whether someone born outside the United States to
a U.S. citizen parent or parents is a U.S. citizen at birth. In general, these laws require a combination
of at least one parent being a U.S. citizen when the child was born and having lived in the United
States for a period of time. In addition, children born abroad may become U.S. citizens after birth.
Citizenship laws have changed extensively over time with two major changes coming into ef fect in
1978 and 2001.
Before the Act of October 10, 1978, U.S. citizens who had acquired citizenship through birth abroad to
one citizen parent had to meet certain physical presence requirements to retain citizenship.[3] This
legislation removed all retention requirements. 
Before the Child Citizenship Act of 2000 (CCA),[4] effective February 27, 2001, the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA) had two provisions for derivation of citizenship, former INA  320 and former INA
321.[5] The CCA  removed INA  321 and revised INA  320 making it the only statutory provision for
children under 18 years of age in the United States to automatically acquire citizenship after birth.
[6] The CCA  also amended INA 322 to provide for applications for naturalization on behalf of foreign-
born children who did not automatically acquire citizenship and who reside outside the United States
with a U.S. citizen parent.[7]
C. Table of General Provisions
Children born outside the United States may acquire U.S. citizenship in multiple ways. The table below
serves as a quick reference guide to the acquisition of citizenship provisions.[8] The chapters that
follow the table provide further guidance.
General Provisions for Acquisition of Citizenship for Children Born Abroad
INA Section Status of ParentsResidence or
Physical Presence
RequirementsChild is a U.S.
Citizen
301(c)  (Born
in wedlock)Both parents are U.S.
citizens at the time of
child’ s birthAt least one U.S. citizen parent
has resided in the United
States or its outlying possessions
before child's birthAt birth
301(d)One parent is a U.S.
citizen; other parent is a
U.S. national (but not
citizen) of the United
StatesU.S. citizen parent was physically
present in the United States or its
outlying possessions for one year
before child’ s birthAt birth8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2455/2618