Part N - Legalization
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures.
See more
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 24 - Legalization (External)
Part O - Registration
Chapter 1 - Presumption of Lawful Admission
A. Purpose
USCIS may recognize certain classes of immigrants who entered the United States during specific
time periods as having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence even though a record of their
admission cannot be found. Such immigrants who have not abandoned status or been ordered
excluded, deported, or removed may be eligible for a creation of record of their lawful permanent
residence. This process is called “presumption of lawful admission” and is essentially a verification of
status, rather than an adjustment of status.
B. Background
As U.S. immigration laws were codified, certain groups of aliens were unable to prove their entry ,
admission, or immigration status in the United States based on records or other evidence. V arious
provisions grandfathered these aliens into existing law by allowing for the recording of their lawful
admission for permanent residence. 
C. Legal Authority
8 CFR 101.1  – Presumption of lawful admission
8 CFR 264.2  – Application for creation of record of permanent residence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1833/2618