Chapter 7 - Adjudication
A. Victim-Centered Approach
USCIS strives to apply a victim-centered approach to all victim-based filings. A victim-centered
approach places equal value on stabilizing victims by providing immigration relief and investigating
and prosecuting traf fickers. In the context of adjudicating applications for T nonimmigrant status, a
victim-centered approach means applying a trauma-informed, survivor-informed, and culturally
competent approach to all policies regarding victims.
When corresponding with the applicant, of ficers should be mindful of the potential for retraumatization
in both in-person and written interactions.
B. Interview
USCIS has discretion to interview applicants for T nonimmigrant status for purposes of adjudicating
the application.[1] USCIS conducts a full review of the application and supporting evidence to
determine whether an interview may be warranted.
USCIS recognizes the vulnerable position of applicants for T nonimmigrant status. USCIS generally
does not require an interview if the record contains suf ficient information and evidence to approve the
application without an in-person assessment. However , USCIS reserves the right to interview the T
applicant as needed.
C. Requests to Expedite
USCIS has discretion to expedite the adjudication of immigration benefit requests, including the
Application for T Nonimmigrant Status ( Form I-914 ) and Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant
Status ( Form I-914, Supplement A).[2]
D. Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny
If the applicant has not presented suf ficient or credible evidence to establish each eligibility
requirement for T-1 nonimmigrant status by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS may issue a
Request for Evidence (RFE) or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) to request evidence of eligibility .[3]
When there is derogatory information of which the applicant is unaware and upon which an adverse
decision will be based, USCIS provides a detailed summary of the derogatory information that gives
the applicant meaningful notice of the derogatory information, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(b)(16)
(i), and an opportunity to rebut to the applicant through an RFE, NOID, or other formal notice.[4]
E. Approvals8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 704/2618