[^ 20]  See Chapter 5, Action on Pending or Approved Suitability Determinations, Section B, V alidity
Periods and Extensions [ 5 USCIS-PM B.5(B) ].
Chapter 4 - Home Studies
A. Purpose and Scope
A home study is a process where a licensed or authorized home study preparer screens and prepares
prospective adoptive parents (P APs) for adoption. A home study concludes with a report that makes
recommendations about a P AP’s suitability to adopt based on the assessments described in this
chapter . Home studies must address all required content,[1] but USCIS does not have a required
format. Home studies must comply with applicable laws and policies in the:
PAP’s place of residence (U.S. state or territory , or foreign country);
Child’ s country of origin; and
United States (federal laws governing adoption and immigration).[2] 
Summary of Home Study Requirements
Requirement Summary
Authorized home
study preparersOnly licensed or authorized persons or agencies may conduct home
studies.
Visits and interviewsThe home study preparer must conduct at least one interview in-person
and at least one home visit with the P AP, at least one interview with any
adult member of the household (AMH), and observe any children in the
home, when possible.
Household member
informationThe home study preparer must assess the impact of each household
member (P AP, AMH, and child in the home) on the suitability of the P AP’s
household.
Family historyThe home study preparer must assess the P AP’s family and parenting
history .
Living
accommodationsThe home study preparer must assess the suitability of the P AP’s living
accommodations.
PAP immigration
statusThe home study preparer must ask the P APs about their citizenship and
immigration status. If the applicant’ s spouse resides in the United States
and does not have lawful permanent resident status, the home study
preparer should address any impact this may have on the stability of the
home so USCIS can evaluate if the family’ s situation is suf ficiently stable to
be found suitable.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 903/2618