The CSP A age for an alien who is a derivative asylee is his or her age on the date the principal
applicant’ s Form I-589  is filed. In other words, the alien’ s age is frozen on the date the Form I-589 is
filed. If the alien was under the age of 21 at the time of filing, the alien is considered a child for CSP A
and will not age out.
Generally , in order to establish eligibility , an alien who is a derivative asylee must have been listed on
the principal applicant’ s Form I-589  prior to a final decision on the principal’ s asylum application.
However , the alien may overcome their parent’ s failure to list them on the Form I-589 by providing
evidence establishing the parent-child relationship, including evidence of the child’ s age, and a
reasonable explanation as to why the alien was not included on the principal asylum applicant’ s Form
I-589.[15]
E. Derivative Refugees
CSPA allows aliens who turn 21 years old after a refugee application is filed but prior to adjudication to
continue to be classified as children and remain eligible for derivative refugee status. For purposes of
adjustment of status of a derivative refugee, CSP A protection is not needed because an alien who is
a derivative refugee does not need to remain the child of the principal refugee in order to adjust status
under INA 209.[16]
1. Applicability
In order to qualify for CSP A:
The alien must have had a qualifying Registration for Classification as a Refugee (Form I-590) or
Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ) pending on or after the CSP A effective date; and
The alien must have been under the age of 21 and unmarried at the time the qualifying Form I-
590 was filed.[17]
The alien must have been unmarried at the time the alien receives derivative refugee status either
when USCIS approves the Form I-730 if the alien is in the United States or at the time the alien is
admitted into the United States as a derivative refugee.[18] However , the alien does not need to
remain unmarried after receiving derivative refugee status in order to adjust status under INA  209.[19]
2. Determining Child Status Protection Act Age
The CSP A age for an alien who is a derivative refugee is his or her age on the date the principal
applicant’ s Form I-590 is filed. The date a Form I-590 is considered filed is the date of the principal
refugee's interview with a USCIS of ficer. The alien’ s age is frozen on the date of the principal refugee’ s
interview . So long as the alien was under 21 on the date of the interview , he or she will not age out of
eligibility for derivative refugee status or adjustment of status.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1477/2618