[^ 34]  See Issuance of Notices to Appear (NT As) in Cases Involving Inadmissible and Deportable
Aliens , PM-602-0187, issued February 28, 2025.
Chapter 8 - Inapplicability of Bars to Adjustment
Some or all of the INA 245(c)  adjustment bars do not apply to certain categories of adjustment
applicants. When adjudicating an adjustment application, an of ficer should carefully consider which
bars apply . 
A. VAWA Self-Petitioners and Beneficiaries
All bars to adjustment do not apply to a battered or abused spouse, child, or parent of a U.S. citizen or
a battered or abused spouse or child of a lawful permanent resident with an approved V iolence
Against W omen Act (V AWA) self-petition.[1]
B. Immediate Relatives
Certain adjustment bars do not apply to an immediate relative, including the spouse or child
(unmarried and under 21 years old) of a U.S. citizen, and the parent of a U.S. citizen older than 21.[2]
An adjustment applicant applying as an immediate relative may be eligible to adjust status even if: 
The applicant is now employed or has ever been employed in the United States without
authorization; 
The applicant is not in lawful immigration status on the date he or she files the adjustment
application; 
The applicant has ever failed to continuously maintain a lawful status since entry into the United
States; 
The applicant was last admitted to Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
(CNMI) as a visitor under the Guam or CNMI V isa W aiver Program and is not a Canadian
citizen; 
The applicant was last admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant visitor without a visa
under the V isa W aiver Program; or 
The applicant has ever violated the terms of his or her nonimmigrant status. 
C. Certain Special Immigrants
Some adjustment bars to not apply to certain special immigrants (employment-based fourth
preference category), depending on program-specific requirements. Specific information about some
of these special immigrants and the adjustment bars that apply to them is provided below . 
1. Religious W orkers[3]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1590/2618