The of ficer should also confirm that the applicant continues to meet all eligibility requirements through
the date of final adjudication, including reviewing the following:
1. Violations of Status and Other Bars to Adjustment
If applying under INA 245(a) , an applicant must have been either inspected and admitted, or inspected
and paroled, and must not be subject to any of the bars to adjustment specified in INA 245(c) . These
bars preclude certain applicants from adjusting status, including those who have violated their status,
failed to maintain valid status, or worked without authorization. Most applicants must maintain their
status up until the date of filing for adjustment of status, with the exception of those adjusting as
immediate relatives and certain special immigrants.[4]
Some employment-based adjustment applicants may overcome adjustment bars under the provisions
of INA 245(k) . In addition, some applicants who entered without inspection or are otherwise subject to
adjustment bars may still be eligible to adjust status under the provisions of INA 245(i) .
2. Qualifying Family Relationship Continues to Exist
If the applicant claims a family relationship on the immigrant visa petition, that relationship must
remain intact until a decision on the adjustment application, in most circumstances.[5] The of ficer must
confirm that the applicant remains eligible to adjust status based on the relationship claimed on the
underlying immigrant visa petition. Failure to maintain the relationship disqualifies the applicant in
most cases or , if not disqualifying, may be a negative discretionary factor in certain types of cases.
The of ficer should review documentation to establish that the relationship continues. This review may
include Child Status Protection Act (CSP A)[6] age calculations to confirm that the applicant remains a
child by definition.[7]
In cases of derivatives following-to-join, the derivative’ s qualifying relationship to the principal applicant
must have existed when the principal beneficiary obtained lawful permanent resident status and
continue to exist through final adjudication of the derivative’ s adjustment application for the derivative
applicant to remain eligible.[8]
If the principal beneficiary becomes a permanent resident and loses his or her permanent resident
status or naturalizes prior to the derivative’ s adjustment, the derivative is no longer eligible for the
classification as an accompanying or following-to-join family member .[9] Furthermore, a derivative may
not be granted permanent resident status prior to the principal beneficiary’ s obtaining permanent
resident status, because the derivative has no right or eligibility for the classification apart from the
eligibility of the principal beneficiary’ s status, with the exception of U nonimmigrants, asylees, and
refugees.[10]
3. Continuing V alidity of the Employment-based Petition8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1457/2618