If there is credible and probative evidence that the adoption may be invalid for one of these reasons,
the burden falls on the petitioner to establish that the adoption is valid under the law of the jurisdiction
where the adoption order was issued.
1. Adoption as Judicial or Administrative Act
The law of the jurisdiction that issued the adoption order governs what of ficial act constitutes an
adoption in that jurisdiction. In many countries, adoption is a judicial process. The evidence of the
adoption is therefore a court order . In other countries, adoption is an administrative process, not a
judicial process. For example, in some countries, adoption is accomplished by adding the adopted
child to one’ s Family Registry .[7] In some countries, a legal adoption can be accomplished according
to legal custom, without a court or administrative order .
2. Whether Adoption is Legally Possible in a Given Jurisdiction
The law of the jurisdiction where the adoption order was issued governs whether or not a legal parent-
child relationship can be created by adoption.
Islamic Law
With some limited exceptions,[8] in countries that follow traditional Islamic law , adoption in the sense
required for immigration purposes generally does not exist.[9] Typically , a Kafala order is issued in
countries that follow traditional Islamic law , and while the Kafala order may grant legal custody
sufficient for purposes of emigration for adoption, they generally do not terminate the legal parent-child
relationship with their prior parents. For that reason, a Kafala order generally would not qualify as an
adoption for immigration purposes. In countries which follow traditional Islamic Law , the specific laws
of that country must be applied in considering the legal ef fect of an adoption order , and its validity for
immigration purposes.
Multi-Ethnic or Multi-Religious Countries
In some multi-ethnic or multi-religious countries, the personal status laws for each ethnic or religious
group governs adoptions. In such countries, dif ferent bodies of law govern adoption for dif ferent
children, even within the same neighborhood. For example, an adoption valid for immigration
purposes may not be available for a Muslim child under Islamic family law but may be available for
another child under Jewish or Christian family law .
3. Customary Adoption
In some countries, customary adoption may exist instead of, or in addition to, adoption through a
judicial or administrative procedure. If a customary adoption terminates the legal parent-child
relationship with the prior parents and creates a legal parent-child relationship with the adoptive parent
under local law , then that customary adoption is valid for immigration purposes.[10]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 887/2618