Abused spouses and children seeking benefits under Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central
American Relief Act (NACARA);
Special immigrant juveniles;
Asylees; or
Refugees.[14]
C. Category of Requestor Eligible for Fee W aiver
1. Documentation of an Eligible Category
A requestor must submit documentation to show that they fall into a category eligible for a fee waiver .
Such documentation may include:
A copy of any type of Notice of Action ( Form I-797 ) for the eligible benefit;
A copy of a permanent resident card with the eligible category annotated; or
Any other evidence of a petition or application pending with USCIS for an eligible benefit
category .
For concurrently filed applications, USCIS of ficers review the type of benefit request submitted and the
category requested to determine whether the requestor is eligible for a fee waiver .
For separately filed applications, if the primary benefit eligible for a fee waiver has already been filed,
the requestor may submit a copy of the primary benefit petition or application that was filed with the
fee waiver request.
An of ficer may verify in the available systems whether the requestor has applied for or received a
benefit for one of the eligible categories.
2. Other Agency Fee W aiver Request
USCIS cannot waive the fee for any U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Executive Of fice for
Immigration Review (EOIR) forms, but an immigration judge may waive fees for EOIR forms as well as
requests filed on USCIS forms in an immigration court proceeding.[15]
Immigration judges may also request that USCIS consider a fee waiver request for a party in their
court. In such cases, the requestor must still submit Form I-912  or written statement along with
evidence of eligibility for the fee waiver .
D. Basis for Inability to Pay
USCIS evaluates whether the requestor is unable to pay the filing fee based on the following criteria:
The requestor or qualifying member of the requestor ’s household is receiving a means-tested
benefit;8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 226/2618