Issuance of a Duplicate Permanent Labor Certification
If the original permanent labor certification has been lost, DOL  does not issue a duplicate permanent
labor certification to the petitioner but issues a duplicate directly to DOS or USCIS for ET A Form 9089
permanent labor certifications.[15] DOL  only issues these duplicates for permanent labor certifications
filed on or after March 28, 2005[16] and only at the request of DOS or USCIS.
A beneficiary , petitioner , or a beneficiary’ s or petitioner ’s attorney or agent must therefore explain the
need for a duplicate to USCIS and USCIS may then request that DOL  issue a duplicate. DOL  retains
permanent labor certification information for 5 years and can only issue duplicates during that time
frame. The USCIS request must include documentary evidence that a visa application or petition has
been filed and must include the U.S. embassy or consulate or USCIS case tracking number that is
associated with the visa application or petition.
DOL only sends the duplicate permanent labor certification to DOS or USCIS, regardless of who
makes the request.[17] An of ficer should only make the request to DOL  if it is in conjunction with a
petition filed with USCIS where the original permanent labor certification has been irretrievably lost or
destroyed. The duplicate permanent labor certification must be retained as part of the record of the
petition after it is received from DOL  and should not be forwarded to the petitioner or the petitioner ’s
representative.
An of ficer should not make such a request to DOL  if the petitioner ’s attorney requested a duplicate
permanent labor certification in general correspondence to USCIS, merely because he or she would
like a copy for his or her records.
If another beneficiary has used or been substituted on a permanent labor certification that the
petitioner claims has been lost or denied, the of ficer should deny the request for a duplicate
permanent labor certification.
D. New Approval of Permanent Labor Certification Required
1. In General
The list of conditions that require the submission of a new original permanent labor certification in
support of the petition includes, but is not limited to:
The successor entity (petitioner) has not established that a successor-in-interest relationship
exists between the successor and the predecessor in accordance with the three successor-in-
interest factors;[18]
The permanent labor certification is not valid for the new geographic area of the beneficiary’ s
proposed employment; or
There has been any other material change in the job opportunity covered by the original
permanent labor certification.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1118/2618