An F-1 student may generally travel abroad and seek readmission to the United States in F-1 status
during a cap-gap period if:
USCIS has approved the student’ s H-1B petition and request for change of status;
The student seeks readmission before the student’ s H-1B employment begins (normally at the
beginning of the fiscal year on October 1); and
The student is otherwise admissible.[73]
If an F-1 student travels abroad while the application for change of status to H-1B is still pending, the
change of status portion of the petition is deemed abandoned. If the H-1B petition on behalf of the
student is approved, the student may apply for an H-1B visa from abroad.
E. M-1 Practical T raining
1. Application
PT is the only type of work authorization available to M-1 students. It allows M-1 students to get on-
the-job training that is not available in their home country .[74] PT may only be authorized after the M-1
student completes their course of study . M-1 students must obtain the DSO’ s recommendation for PT .
Prior to their program end date, but not more than 90 days before the program end date, M-1 students
seeking PT  must apply for permission to accept employment by filing a Form I-765  and an Application
to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status ( Form I-539 ), to extend their status to allow suf ficient time to
complete the PT  plus a 30-day departure period.[75]
In some cases, the student finishes the course of study early or U.S. Customs and Border Protection
gave the student more time than needed on the student’ s Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94). These
students do not need to file a Form I-539 if they have suf ficient time left in status to complete their PT
and depart. Students must submit a Form I-20  that has been endorsed for PT  by the DSO with
their Form I-539.
USCIS denies a Form I-765 if the M-1 student departs while the application is pending. An M-1 student
may not be admitted to begin PT  that was not authorized before the student’ s departure from the
United States.[76]
2. Duration
USCIS grants 1 month of employment authorization for each 4 months of full-time study that the M-1
student has completed, not to exceed an aggregate of 6 months.[77] USCIS does not grant the student
employment authorization if the student cannot complete the requested PT  within 6 months. The M-1
student may not begin employment until USCIS has issued them an employment authorization
document.
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 407/2618