testifying. If there is a doubt that the child is the birth child of the purported birth parent, USCIS may
provide the P AP the option of submitting DNA  evidence in compliance with USCIS standards to
establish the claimed relationship.[14]
Delayed Birth Certificates
Generally , USCIS does not give the same weight to delayed birth certificates as birth certificates
issued at the time of birth due to the potential for fraud.[15] Certain jurisdictions, however , may not
issue birth certificates to children until they become involved in an intercountry adoption. An of ficer
must determine the reliability of the facts contained in the delayed certificate, for an orphan child, in
light of the other evidence in the record and should not reject the delayed certificate's evidentiary
value simply because it was not issued at the time of the child's birth. Of ficers should check the U.S.
Department of State (DOS)'s Country Reciprocity Schedule  to determine a document's availability and
reliability .
4. Evidence Child is an Orphan
The P AP must submit evidence that the child is an orphan as defined under U.S. immigration law:[16]
No legal parent - If the child does not have a sole or surviving parent, the P AP must submit
evidence that the child is an orphan because of the death or disappearance of, abandonment or
desertion by , or separation or loss from the child’ s parents. It is not necessary to establish that
each parent is gone for the same reason.
Sole parent - If the orphan is a child of a sole parent, the P AP must submit evidence that the
birth mother[17] is a sole parent, is incapable of providing proper care for the child, and has
irrevocably released the child for emigration and adoption in writing.
Surviving parent - If the orphan is a child of a surviving parent, the P AP must submit evidence
that the other parent is deceased, the surviving parent is incapable of providing proper care for
the child, and the surviving parent has irrevocably released the child for emigration and adoption
in writing.
Incapable of Providing Proper Care of the Child
Evidence that a parent is incapable of providing proper care of a child may consist of:
Proof of the parent's wages in comparison to the local area's average wages for a family of the
same size;
Medical records of the child's or parent's psychological or physical dif ficulties;
Court records or other proof that the parent is incarcerated and the duration of the sentence;
A social welfare report submitted to the adoption authority in support of an adoption that
discusses the background and living situation of the child;[18] or8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 959/2618