under any program or activity conducted by any Executive agency .”[2] It is USCIS policy to provide
equal access to its benefits, services, and activities for persons with disabilities, and to provide
religious accommodations in accordance with applicable requirements.
B. Reasonable Accommodation
The essential feature of an accommodation is that it allows the person with a disability to participate in
the process or activity . While USCIS is not required to make major modifications that would result in a
fundamental change to the processes or cause an undue burden for the agency , USCIS makes every
effort to provide accommodations to persons with disabilities. Reasonable accommodations vary ,
depending on the situation and the person’ s disability .
Benefit requestors must satisfy all of the legal requirements to receive an immigration benefit;
however , USCIS must provide reasonable accommodations to persons with disabilities to af ford them
the opportunity to meet those requirements.
Examples of accommodations include, but are not limited to:
Those unable to use their hands may be permitted to take a test orally rather than in writing;
Those who are deaf or hard of hearing may be provided with a sign language interpreter for a
USCIS-sponsored event;[3]
Those unable to speak may be allowed to respond to questions in an agreed-upon nonverbal
manner;[4]
Those unable to travel to a designated USCIS location for an interview due to a disabling
condition may be interviewed at their home or a medical facility .
C. Requesting Accommodation
1. How to Make a Disability Accommodation Request
To request disability accommodation for any phase of the application process, benefit requestors,
other interested parties, and other persons with disabilities who use USCIS services and access
USCIS facilities, should generally submit the request online using the Disability Accommodations for
Appointments  tool.[5] Requestors should submit accommodation requests to USCIS as soon as they
are aware of the need for an accommodation for a particular event. The more advance notice USCIS
has, the more likely it will be able to make appropriate arrangements for the accommodation request.
[6]
2. USCIS Points-of-Contact
To ensure accountability , each field of fice, application support center (ASC), or asylum of fice must
designate at least one employee to be responsible for handling accommodation requests. All
employees should be aware of the procedures for handling such requests.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 170/2618