The petitioner documents the beneficiary’ s employment or research experience is with leading
institutions in the field (such as U.S. universities that have been recognized as having high or
very high research activity by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education,[49]
foreign universities with comparably high research activity , or a university that is highly regarded
according to a widely recognized metric such as the QS W orld University Rankings[50]). Such
employment or experience can be a positive factor toward demonstrating that the beneficiary is
among the small percentage at the top of the field.
The record establishes that the beneficiary has received unsolicited invitations to speak or
present research at nationally or internationally recognized conferences in the field. Although
such a role for the conference may not rise to the level of a critical or essential capacity , this type
of invitation is generally indicative of a person’ s high standing and recognition for achievements
in the field.
The record establishes that the beneficiary is named as an investigator , scientist, or researcher
on a peer-reviewed and competitively funded U.S. government grant or stipend for STEM
research. This type of evidence can be a positive factor indicating a beneficiary is among the
small percentage at the top of the beneficiary’ s field.
The record includes a letter or other documentation from an interested government agency ,
including a quasi-governmental entity , that attests in detail to the beneficiary’ s sustained national
or international acclaim.
In all cases, the petitioner has the burden of providing suf ficient context regarding the above evidence
and considerations to demonstrate that the evidence meets the relevant criteria and to establish the
beneficiary’ s extraordinary ability in the totality of the circumstances.
With respect to demonstrating extraordinary ability in athletics, USCIS considers the fact that a male
athlete has been competing against women as a negative factor in determining whether the alien is
among the small percentage at the very top of the field.[51]
D. O-1B Beneficiaries in the Arts
1. Establishing Eligibility
In support of an O-1B (Arts) Petition for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ), the petitioner must
establish that the beneficiary:
Has extraordinary ability in the arts which has been demonstrated by sustained national or
international acclaim;
Has achievements that have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; and
Is coming to work in the area of extraordinary ability (but not necessarily that the particular duties
to be performed require someone of such extraordinary ability).[52]
2. Supporting Documentation8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 546/2618