The term "group" is defined as two or more persons established as one entity or unit to perform or to
provide a service.[10] “Member of a group” means a person who is actually performing the
entertainment services.[11] It does not include persons who assist in the presentation who are not on
the stage (such as lighting or sound technicians). These support personnel would need to be
petitioned for as essential support (P-1S) and a separate petition must be filed for them.[12]
If a solo artist or entertainer traditionally performs on stage with the same group of people, such as
back-up singers or musicians, the act may be classified as a group. This group would then need to
meet the “75 percent rule.” The “75 percent rule” means that 75 percent of the members of the group
must have been performing entertainment services for the group for a minimum of 1 year or more.[13]
If the group does not meet the 75 percent rule, the artist or entertainer would need to qualify for
another classification, such as an O-1 nonimmigrant (rather than P-1B) and the back-up band as O-2
nonimmigrants.
B. Performers Under Reciprocal Exchange or Culturally Unique Programs
1. Individual Performer or Part of a Group Performing Under a Reciprocal Exchange Program
(P-2 Nonimmigrant)
A P-2 nonimmigrant is a person coming to the United States to perform as an artist or entertainer ,
individually or as part of a group and who seeks to perform under a reciprocal exchange program
which is between organization(s) in the United States and organization(s) in one or more foreign
states.[14]
2. Artist or Entertainer as Part of Culturally Unique Program (P-3 Nonimmigrant)
A P-3 nonimmigrant is a person coming to the United States solely to perform, teach, or coach under a
commercial or noncommercial program that is culturally unique.[15]
C. Essential Support Personnel
Essential support personnel are eligible for a P-1S, P-2S, or P-3S nonimmigrant classification if the
petitioner can establish that they are an integral part of the performance of the P-1, P-2, or P-3 athlete,
team, entertainer , or entertainment group because he or she performs support services that cannot be
readily performed by a U.S. worker and which are essential to the successful performance of services
by the P-1, P-2, or P-3 nonimmigrant.[16]
D. Treatment of Family Members
The spouse and unmarried children may qualify for P-4 derivative classification. They are entitled to
the same period of admission and limitations as the beneficiary of the P  petition. They are not allowed
to accept employment unless they have been independently granted employment authorization. If the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 580/2618