USCIS reserves the right to disqualify an interpreter provided by the applicant if an of ficer considers
that the integrity of the examination is compromised by the interpreter ’s participation.
B. Preliminary Review of Application
A USCIS of ficer who is designated to conduct the naturalization interview should review the applicant’ s
“A-file” and naturalization application before the interview . The A-file is the applicant’ s record of his or
her interaction with USCIS, legacy Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), and other
governmental organizations with which the applicant has had proceedings pertinent to his or her
immigration record. The of ficer addresses all pertinent issues during the naturalization interview .
1. General Contents of A-File
The applicant’ s A-file may include the following information along with his or her naturalization
application:
Documents that show how the applicant became an LPR;
Other applications or forms for immigration benefits submitted by the applicant;
Correspondence between USCIS and the applicant;
Memoranda and forms from of ficers that may be pertinent to the applicant’ s eligibility;
Materials such as any criminal records,[16] correspondence from other agencies, and
investigative reports and enforcement actions from DHS or other agencies.
2. Jurisdiction for Application[17]
In most cases, the USCIS of fice having jurisdiction over the applicant’ s residence at the time of filing
has the responsibility for processing and adjudicating the naturalization application.[18] An of ficer
should review whether the jurisdiction of a case has changed because the applicant has moved after
filing his or her naturalization application. The USCIS of fice may transfer the application to the
appropriate of fice with jurisdiction when appropriate.[19] In addition, an applicant for naturalization as a
battered spouse of a U.S. citizen[20] or child may use a dif ferent address for safety which does not
affect the jurisdiction requirements. 
In cases where an of ficer becomes aware of a change in jurisdiction during the naturalization
interview , the of ficer may complete the interview and then forward the applicant’ s A-file with the
pending application to the of fice having jurisdiction. The of ficer informs the applicant that the
application’ s jurisdiction has changed. The applicant will receive a new appointment notice from the
current of fice with jurisdiction.
3. Results of Background and Security Checks[21]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2271/2618