How the beneficiary’ s position relates to organization’ s strategic or operational goals.
The record may also contain various documents as evidence of the organizations’  business activities.
The documentary evidence submitted should corroborate the petitioner ’s statements.
To make an accurate determination of the eligibility of the beneficiary’ s position, either in or outside the
United States, the petitioner must provide a description of the beneficiary’ s duties placed in the context
of:
The personnel structure of the organization; and
The nature and scope of the business that it conducts.
Where an organization employs only a few people yet claims that the majority of its employees are
primarily engaged as managers or executives, of ficers may request complete position descriptions
and hourly breakdowns for the duties performed by all of the people employed by the organization,
including one for the beneficiary , as well as copies of corroborative payroll documentation.
Officers may use the position descriptions and payroll documentation to determine who is performing
the non-qualifying, operational duties of the business. The entity may be substantial in size, but the
department or division where the beneficiary is, or will be, employed may be top-heavy with managers
and executives. If the employer is a large organization, of ficers should limit detailed staf fing inquiries
to the department or division where the beneficiary has been or will be employed.
On the other hand, the evidence may indicate that the business employs only one or two people,
including the beneficiary . In such cases, of ficers may find it helpful to try to determine who is
performing the non-managerial operational duties of the business. The business may not directly
employ people to perform the non-managerial services of the business. Instead, the business may
contract out some of its functions such as accounting, sales, warehousing, and personnel.
When evaluating the nature of a claimed managerial or executive position, the of ficer must review the
petition and supporting evidence to establish that the beneficiary’ s employment qualifies for L-1
purposes.
The evidence must demonstrate the employer ’s business activities in a manner that allows for a clear
understanding of the products and services that it provides, and how the beneficiary’ s position fits into
its organizational hierarchy .
A petitioner may not claim to employ a beneficiary as a hybrid executive-manager and rely on partial
sections of the two statutory definitions. If the petitioner chooses to represent the beneficiary as both
an executive and a manager , it must still establish that the beneficiary is engaged in duties that are
primarily either managerial or executive and that the beneficiary meets all four criteria of that definition.
L-1B Petitions8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 514/2618