Each case file will contain all of the forms, evidence, and of ficer notes that were part of the application
for asylum. The most important document for an of ficer to review is either the asylum application
(Form I-589 ) or the relative petition ( Form I-730 ). Both provide proof of status and establish identity
(with attached photo) as well as citizenship, since many asylees will not have a birth certificate or
passport.
D. Unavailable or Missing Documentation
When an asylee flees the country of persecution, they may have been unable to obtain any
documentation issued by a civil authority as proof of identity or of a familial relationship. At the time of
the asylum interview , the asylum of ficer reviews a myriad of documents and af fidavits and solicits
testimony when seeking to establish an asylum-seeker ’s personal and family identity . Any available
documents submitted at the time of the asylum interview should be contained within the A-file.
An of ficer may rely on the documents contained in the A-file to verify the applicant’ s identity at the time
of adjustment. While it is not necessary to request the applicant’ s birth certificate or passport as proof
of identity , officers should review any documentation the applicant submits to establish identity .
Additionally , photos the applicant submits should be compared to the photos in the A-file. If an of ficer
is unable to establish an applicant’ s identity due to discrepancies between the documentation the
applicant submitted and the information contained in the A-file, then the file should be forwarded to the
field of fice having jurisdiction over the case for interview and resolution.
Footnote
[^ 1] This is a determination made by the Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.
Chapter 5 - Adjudication Procedures
A. Record of Proceedings Review and Underlying Basis
The of ficer should place all documents in the A-file according to the established record of proceedings
order , including the filing of any documents the alien submitted in response to a Request for Evidence
(RFE).
In determining eligibility for adjustment of status of an alien with asylum status, the of ficer should
review the underlying application (either Form I-589  or Form I-730 ) that provided the alien with asylum
status. The application establishes identity , family relationships, and date of grant of asylum status (if a
principal asylee or a derivative asylee was within the United States at time of grant). 
B. Interview Criteria8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1823/2618