If the V isa Bulletin shows “U” in a category , this means that immigrant visa numbers are
temporarily unavailable to all applicants in that particular preference category and country of birth (or
country of chargeability).
5. Visa Retrogression
Sometimes a priority date that is current one month will not be current the next month, or the cut-of f
date will move backwards to an earlier date. This is called visa retrogression, which occurs when more
people apply for a visa in a particular category than there are visas available for that month. V isa
retrogression generally occurs when the annual limit for a category or country has been used up or is
expected to be used up soon. When the new fiscal year begins on October 1, a new supply of visa
numbers is available for allocation. Usually , but not always, the new supply returns the cut-of f dates to
where they were before retrogression.
In the past, DOS has notified USCIS that several visa preference categories have become fully
subscribed within days of publication of the monthly V isa Bulletin. Despite this fact, applicable
regulations[34] prevent USCIS from rejecting applications within that particular month, regardless of
the actual availability of visa numbers.
If an of ficer encounters a case in which a visa was available at time of filing but is not available at time
of final adjudication, the case should be retained, pre-processed, and adjudicated up to the point of
final approval. If a particular applicant is ineligible for adjustment due to an issue not related to visa
availability , the case may be denied accordingly because visa availability is not relevant.
All otherwise approvable employment-based and family-based cases located at a USCIS field of fice
that do not have a visa available at the time of adjudication must be transferred to the appropriate
USCIS of fice or Service Center once the case has been adjudicated up to the point of final
adjudication. The of ficer should ensure that the interview and all other processing requirements,
including resolution of security checks, have been completed prior to shipping the otherwise
approvable case.
Final adjudication cannot be completed until a visa has been requested and DOS approves the visa
request. Once a visa number becomes available, a USCIS of ficer will complete a final review of the
adjustment application to ensure the applicant continues to meet eligibility requirements at time of final
adjudication. This includes updating any expired security checks and may also include issuing a
Request for Evidence (RFE) if it is unclear whether the applicant is still eligible for the particular
classification or may be subject to a bar to adjustment or an inadmissibility ground, particularly in
those cases that have had a long-delayed final adjudication.
6. Derivatives
In order to prevent the separation of families, the spouse or children of a preference immigrant can
accompany or follow to join the principal beneficiary of an immigrant visa petition.[35] Because the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1463/2618