If the requestor is receiving support services, an af fidavit from a religious institution, non-profit,
hospital, or community-based organization verifying the person is currently receiving some
benefit or support from that entity and attesting to the requestor ’s financial situation; or
Evidence of unemployment, such as a termination letter or unemployment insurance receipt.
An of ficer may grant a request for fee waiver in the absence of some of this documentation, as long as
the available documentation supports that the requestor is more likely than not unable to pay the fee.
VAWA, T, and U-Based Requestors
USCIS considers whether a requestor is unable to obtain proof of income due to alleged victimization
such as traf ficking or abuse. If not otherwise eligible for a fee exemption, the requestor should
describe the situation in the Form I-912  or written request to substantiate the inability to pay as well as
the inability to obtain the required documentation.
The requestor should provide any available documentation, such as af fidavits from religious
institutions, non-profits, or other community-based organizations verifying that the requestor is
currently receiving some benefit or support from that entity and attesting to the financial situation.
E. Emergent Circumstance
Natural catastrophes and other extreme situations[32] beyond a person’ s control may af fect the ability
to pay USCIS fees. Based on the USCIS Director ’s authority to waive a required fee,[33] USCIS may
designate certain time periods or events in which a person may file a fee waiver request when not
otherwise eligible.[34]
In such cases, the requestor must still file a fee waiver request and establish eligibility under one of
the criteria (generally , financial hardship). USCIS may accept the request based on the requestor ’s
statement even if there is no documentation of the emergencies and unforeseen circumstances.
Unless otherwise eligible, requestors may only seek a fee waiver under those emergent
circumstances described in the Immigration Relief in Emergencies or Unforeseen Circumstances
webpage.
F. Adjudication
USCIS may grant a fee waiver request when USCIS determines that the requestor has met the
eligibility requirements.
USCIS adjudicates the fee waiver request based on the information provided in the Request for Fee
Waiver ( Form I-912 ) or written statement, as well as any additional documentation submitted in
support of the fee waiver request at the time of filing. USCIS does not issue any Requests for
Evidence for fee waiver requests. 8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 235/2618