and liabilities. USCIS may request additional evidence on a case-by-case basis if more information is
needed to make a public charge inadmissibility determination.
Income
Applicants indicate their household’ s annual income, which may include income provided to the
household from sources who are not members of the household, such as alimony or child support.[20]
A household’ s annual income excludes any income from Supplemental Security Income (SSI);
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (T ANF); or state, tribal, territorial, or local cash benefit
programs for income maintenance (often called “General Assistance” in the state context, but which
also exist under other names).[21] Similarly , the household’ s income excludes any income from illegal
activities or sources such as proceeds from illegal gambling or drug sales.[22]
USCIS does not limit the consideration of income only to income that appears on federal income tax
forms, and considers all evidence of income from lawful sources. Examples of income that may not
appear on income tax forms include child support and alimony . Some households may also have
regular income, such as Social Security income, that does not reach the minimum required threshold
for filing federal income taxes.[23] USCIS also considers any evidence an alien submits pertaining to
expected future income.
In some instances, the household’ s income may include income that has resulted from unauthorized
employment. Whether an alien or a member of the alien’ s household engaged in unlawful
employment, and any immigration consequences flowing from such unauthorized employment, is a
separate determination from the public charge inadmissibility determination.[24]
Therefore, this income is not excluded from the household’ s income calculation, and USCIS considers
any income derived from employment, regardless of whether the household members had
employment authorization, as long as the income is not derived from illegal activities or sources, such
as illegal gambling.
Assets and Liabilities
When considering the applicant’ s financial status, USCIS also considers the alien’ s household’ s
assets and resources, for example, investments or home equity , excluding any assets from illegal
activities or sources, such as proceeds from illegal gambling or drug sales. USCIS also considers the
alien’ s household’ s liabilities, both secured and unsecured, such as loans, alimony , and child support
payments. By taking into account an alien’ s household’ s liabilities, USCIS is able to examine the
alien’ s overall financial status in the totality of the circumstances.
USCIS considers financial obligations and debts alongside assets and resources to avoid artificially
inflating the calculation of an alien’ s financial status, as these obligations and debts would decrease
the resources that are actually accessible to the alien. However , if an alien has financial obligations8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1991/2618