F. Application for Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate under Section 322 (Form N-
600K)
1. Submission of Application
A U.S. citizen parent of a child[17] born outside of the United States who did not acquire citizenship
automatically may file an Application for Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322
(Form N-600K ) for the child to become a U.S. citizen and obtain a Certificate of Citizenship. The
application may be filed from outside of the United States.
If the U.S. citizen parent has died, the child’ s U.S. citizen grandparent or U.S. citizen legal guardian
may submit the application, provided the application is filed not more than 5 years after the death of
the U.S. citizen parent.[18]
The child of a U.S. citizen member of the U.S. armed forces accompanying their parent outside the
United States on of ficial orders may be eligible to become a U.S. citizen and obtain a Certificate of
Citizenship under INA 322 without having to travel to the United States for any part of the
naturalization process.[19]
USCIS issues proof of U.S. citizenship in the form of a Certificate of Citizenship if the Application for
Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate under Section 322 is approved and the person takes the Oath
of Allegiance, if required to do so.[20] The Certificate of Citizenship evidences the date of citizenship
as of the date of the applicant’ s naturalization, which is the date of taking the Oath of Allegiance
(unless waived).
USCIS does not mail Certificates of Citizenship outside the United States except when a military
member is issued a Certificate of Citizenship under INA 320[21] or a military member ’s dependent
child naturalizes under INA 322(d) .
2. U.S. Passport or Consular Report of Birth Abroad as Evidence of Citizenship
A valid, unexpired U.S. passport or a Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) issued by the
Department of State (DOS) is conclusive proof of U.S. citizenship.[22] A person who holds a valid,
unexpired U.S. passport or a CRBA  has conclusive evidence that they are already a U.S. citizen, so
they are not eligible for naturalization under INA  322.
The of ficer must review the valid U.S. passport or CRBA  and the documentation submitted with the
application and contained in the record to determine if it was issued properly .
3. Request to Revoke U.S. Passport or Cancel Consular Report of Birth Abroad
If USCIS has evidence indicating that a U.S. passport or CRBA  submitted as evidence was obtained
or issued illegally , fraudulently , or erroneously , the of ficer reviews the case with USCIS counsel and, if8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2506/2618