that is relevant to the applicant’ s admissibility . The applicant should not be found inadmissible unless
the medical examination confirms the presence of a Class A medical condition.
C. Other Information
Even if the civil surgeon or panel physician did not annotate a Class A or B condition in the medical
documentation, or if the applicant was not required to undergo a medical examination, the of ficer may
order or reorder an immigration medical examination at any time if he or she has concerns as to an
applicant’ s inadmissibility on health-related grounds.
The concern should be based on information in the A-file, information that is revealed by the applicant
or another applicant during an interview , or information revealed during a background investigation.
D. Other Grounds of Inadmissibility
1. General Considerations
Where relevant, the information contained in the medical examination can be used to determine
whether other grounds of inadmissibility may apply . For instance, health is one factor to consider when
determining if someone is inadmissible on public charge grounds. This factor must, however , be
considered in light of all other factors specified by law .[4]
2. Criminal Grounds
An applicant may be inadmissible on criminal grounds if he or she has admitted to committing certain
controlled substance violations.[5] An applicant may acknowledge to a civil surgeon or a panel
physician that he or she has used a controlled substance, which the physician then may annotate on
the medical documentation.
USCIS does not consider this acknowledgement, in and of itself, a valid admission that would make an
applicant inadmissible on criminal grounds.[6] However such an acknowledgment of drug use may
open a line of questioning to determine criminal inadmissibility . USCIS of ficers should find that an
applicant has made a valid “admission” of a crime only when the admission is made in accordance
with the requirements outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals.[7]
E. Privacy Concerns
An of ficer should take great care to regard the privacy of the applicant. The of ficer should generally not
discuss the applicant’ s medical issues with applicants other than the applicant, his or her counsel,
immigration of ficers, or other government of ficials[8] who clearly have a need to know the information.
The of ficer should not directly contact a civil surgeon to discuss an applicant’ s inadmissibility or
medical issues. If the of ficer has any concerns that cannot be resolved by reviewing the evidence in8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1930/2618