A. Basis
Changed country conditions in the refugee’ s country of nationality do not justify termination of refugee
status. The sole basis for an of ficer to terminate the status of an alien admitted to the United States as
a refugee is if the of ficer determinates that the alien was not a refugee within the meaning of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) at the time of his or her admission to the United States. In
order to make this determination, an of ficer must be familiar with how the term “refugee” is defined.[1]
This determination standard applies solely to principal refugees and never to derivative
refugees. Derivative refugees are not required to prove past persecution or a well-founded fear of
future persecution. However , an of ficer may terminate a derivative refugee’ s status if the principal’ s
status is terminated. 
The statute and regulations do not require the formal termination of refugee status prior to removal
proceedings where the refugee has been inspected and examined for adjustment of status, has been
found inadmissible, and has not been granted a waiver of inadmissibility . Prior to being placed in
removal proceedings, the applicant may first be given an opportunity to apply for a discretionary
waiver of inadmissibility grounds.
If USCIS denies the adjustment application and/or waiver application, the applicant may also renew
his or her application for adjustment or waiver of inadmissibility before an Immigration Judge (IJ).
The applicant may also apply for asylum or any other relief from removal before an IJ. 
The of ficer should prepare a Notice To Appear (NT A) if the refugee is inadmissible. Upon written notice
of the adjustment application’ s denial, the applicant is no longer considered an admitted alien and
should be charged with inadmissibility grounds under INA 212(a) . However , if the of ficer is denying
the adjustment application on other grounds (e.g., abandonment), the of ficer should not issue a
NTA, since the applicant has not been found inadmissible.
Alternatively , USCIS may place a person who was admitted as a refugee directly in removal
proceedings, without termination of refugee status, on the basis of any applicable charges under INA
237 without the adjudication of an adjustment application.
B. Procedures
USCIS conducts terminations of refugee status.[2] If an of ficer concludes after reviewing a refugee’ s A-
file that the facts merit termination of the principal refugee’ s status, the of ficer will follow the
procedures below , depending on where the case is located:
1. Cases Located at Service Centers
All evidence relevant to a possible termination of refugee status should be reviewed by a supervisor
and then scanned and forwarded to the International and Refugee Affairs Division (IRAD) within the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1809/2618