(Form I-485 ), even though the other filings’  fees may be honored, USCIS administratively closes the
dependent filings and refunds the fees. 
Returned Payment for Premium Processing Service Requests
If a premium processing fee for a Request for Premium Processing Service ( Form I-907 ) is declined or
returned when it is filed at the same time as a Petition for Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ) or
Immigrant Petition for Alien W orkers ( Form I-140 ), USCIS rejects the entire filing.
If USCIS has approved the petition and any fee, including one fee of a multiple fee filing, is declined or
returned, USCIS may revoke the approval upon notice. 
In this case, USCIS issues a Notice of Intent to Revoke (NOIR) to the requestor . If the requestor does
not rectify the declined or returned payment within the requisite NOIR time period, USCIS revokes the
approval and retains (and does not refund) any fee that was honored in association with the approval.
For example, if the Form I-907 fee is declined or returned after USCIS approves an associated Form I-
140, USCIS revokes the Form I-140 approval (assuming the NOIR time period has passed without
sufficient response). USCIS then retains the Form I-140 fee, administratively closes the Form I-485,
and refunds the Form I-485 fee.
Response to a NOIR
If USCIS has approved the petition and any fee, including one fee of a multiple fee filing, is declined or
returned, USCIS may revoke, rescind, or cancel the approval. In this case, USCIS issues a NOIR to
the requestor .[24] If the approved benefit request requires multiple fees, approval may be revoked if
any fee submitted is not honored. USCIS does not refund other fees that were paid for an approved
benefit request that is revoked because of a declined or returned fee payment.[25]
To suf ficiently respond to a NOIR, the requestor must, within the requisite NOIR time period, provide
payment of the correct fee amount or demonstrate that the payment was honored or that it was
rejected by USCIS by mistake.[26] If USCIS issues a NOIR and the request does not return suf ficient
evidence to reinstate the case to pending status, then USCIS reopens and denies the request. 
USCIS then sends a notice to the requestor informing them that USCIS has revoked the approval and
denied the benefit request. In contrast with the rejection of a filing, a revocation of an approval due to
a declined or returned fee may be appealed to the USCIS Administrative Appeals Of fice.[27] All
revocation notices instruct the requestor on how they may appeal the revocation or denial due to a
declined or returned payment.[28]
If USCIS does not have the authority to revoke or reopen and deny the benefit request, USCIS
annotates the file to indicate that USCIS never received payment and notifies the benefit requestor of
the payment deficiency . USCIS then notifies the applicant or petitioner that there is a payment8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 246/2618