If a requestor calls the USCIS Contact Center for a change of address request, staf f members cannot
confirm or deny the existence of a pending protection claim without completing enhanced identity and
authorization verification. USCIS Contact Center staf f may direct the requestor to the How to Change
Your Address  webpage and explain how a requestor can change their address.
Case Status Inquiries for Form I-589, Form I-881, and Screening Interviews
Form I-589 applicants and their authorized representatives may use the Case Status Online  tool for
case status updates. If they need further assistance, they may contact the USCIS Contact Center  with
case inquiries.
Form I-589 applicants, Form I-881 applicants, and aliens in the credible fear , reasonable fear , and
Safe Third Country Agreement protection screening processes or their authorized representatives may
request customer service via the USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY : 1-800-767-1833). To
access USCIS Contact Center services, applicants or their authorized representatives calling about
Form I-589 or Form I-881 should have their receipt notices on hand for reference during the call. They
should also have a copy of the pending or approved application that they are calling about readily
available, if possible.
Due to certain confidentiality provisions,[40] USCIS must complete enhanced identity and authorization
verification before confirming or denying the existence of these applications and protection screenings
or responding to any such inquiry , expedite request, referral, or other communication. Only the alien or
their authorized representative may receive information on the application or protection screening.
USCIS Contact Center personnel may direct the caller to USCIS tools or resources or to information
on of fice-specific in-person appointment requirements when appropriate. If USCIS Contact Center
staff is unable to resolve the inquiry , the USCIS Contact Center staf f submits a service request to the
appropriate of fice with jurisdiction for resolution. To locate an asylum of fice, use the Asylum Of fice
Locator  tool.
Asylum of fices may also accept case inquiries directly from the alien or their attorney or accredited
representative with a properly completed Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited
Representative ( Form G-28 ) on file.
Asylum of fices may receive case inquiries in a variety of ways, such as by mail, email, phone, fax, or
in person. After enhanced identity and authorization verification is complete, asylum of fices may
respond to inquiries using any of those communication channels. To protect confidential information,
asylum of fices use encryption and password-protected attachments if responding by email. If it is not
possible to verify the identity of the inquirer , asylum of fices should respond by providing a written
response to the last address the applicant provided.
USCIS Contact Center Status Inquiries for Form I-7308/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 187/2618