National Security Purposes – The Secretary of Homeland Security , the Secretary of State, or the
Attorney General may provide in their discretion the disclosure of information to national security
officials to be used solely for a national security purpose in a manner that protects the
confidentiality of such information.
To sworn of ficers or employees of DOS or DOJ, for legitimate Department, bureau, or agency
purposes.
Prohibited Source
USCIS employees are prohibited from making an adverse determination of admissibility , deportability ,
or removability on a protected person using information furnished solely by a prohibited source. The
officer must not use information provided by the following prohibited sources to make an adverse
determination:
The abuser or perpetrator of the of fense;
Family member of the abuser; or
Someone acting at the request of the abuser .
If the of ficer can independently corroborate the information from a non-prohibited source, the of ficer
may use the information from the non-prohibited source in the adjudication process.
USCIS employees may receive information about a protected person through an anonymous personal
letter , phone call, statement, tip form submission, or other method that raises questions regarding their
eligibility for immigration benefits. USCIS employees should treat the information as inherently suspect
and presume that derogatory information received from an unknown source came from a prohibited
source.[23]
3. USCIS Assistance
USCIS employees must ensure confidentiality is maintained when a benefit requestor protected
under 8 U.S.C. 1367  requests assistance.
Change of Address
Benefit requestors with a pending or approved V AWA, T, or U-related case can request a change of
address by following the instructions on the How to Change Your Address  webpage.
A benefit requestor with a pending or approved V AWA, T, or U-related case may also call the USCIS
Contact Center  at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY : 1-800-767-1833) to request an address change. The benefit
requestor ’s identity must be verified before making the requested change. If the Contact Center is
unable to make the change requested, they schedule an in-person appointment at a
USCIS field of fice. If the change is made during an in-person appointment, the field of fice must make
the change in electronic systems and notify the of fice with jurisdiction over the pending case of the
change.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 180/2618