USCIS cannot release any information relating to a protected person until USCIS verifies both the
identity of the requestor of information and the requestor ’s authorization to receive the protected
information. USCIS must verify the identity and authorization before responding to any inquiry ,
expedite request, referral, or other communication. After identity and authorization verification, USCIS
can provide protected information directly to the protected person or the protected person’ s
representative authorized to receive 1367-protected information.
Representative refers to an attorney or accredited representative who has properly filed a Notice of
Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative ( Form G-28 ) on behalf of a protected
person and who remains in good standing or is not otherwise ineligible to represent persons with
matters before USCIS. 
Exceptions for Disclosure of Information  
USCIS is permitted to disclose information relating to a protected person in certain, limited
circumstances. These circumstances include:
Statistical Information – Disclosure of data and statistical information may be made in the
manner and circumstances permitted by law .[19] 
Legitimate Law Enforcement Purposes – Disclosure of information may be made to law
enforcement of ficials to be used solely for a legitimate law enforcement purpose. 
Judicial Review – Information can be disclosed in connection with judicial review of a
determination provided it is in a manner that protects the confidentiality of the information. 
Applicant W aives Confidentiality – Adults can voluntarily waive the confidentiality provision; if
there are multiple victims in one case, they must all waive the restrictions. 
Public Benefits – Information may be disclosed to federal, state, and local public and private
agencies providing benefits, to be used solely in making determinations of eligibility for benefits.
[20]
Congressional Oversight Authority (for example, Government Accountability Of fice audits) – The
Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security can disclose information on closed
cases to the chairmen and ranking members of Congressional Committees on the Judiciary , for
the exercise of Congressional oversight authority . The disclosure must be in a manner that
protects the confidentiality of the information and omits PII (including location-related information
about a specific person). 
Communication with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) – Government entities
adjudicating applications for relief[21] and government personnel carrying out mandated duties
under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)[22] may , with the prior written consent of the
person involved, communicate with nonprofit NGO victims’  service providers for the sole purpose
of assisting victims in obtaining victim services. Agencies receiving referrals are bound by the
confidentiality provisions. 8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 179/2618