5. Consular Returns
In some cases, after USCIS approves the orphan petition, a consular of ficer discovers adverse
information during the orphan determination or visa process. If a consular of ficer discovers probative
evidence[31] that would have led USCIS to deny the petition had USCIS been aware of the information
at the time of adjudication, the consular of ficer returns the petition to USCIS for possible revocation. A
consular of ficer cannot revoke an approved orphan petition or issue a NOIR.
The DOS Foreign Affairs Manual  contains DOS policies related to consular returns. In general, to
recommend revocation of an orphan petition, the consular of ficer sends the orphan petition to USCIS,
via the National V isa Center , along with a revocation memo, case-specific evidence, the completed
orphan determination, and any other relevant documentation. Consular of ficers may contact USCIS to
enhance coordination.
Once USCIS receives a consular return case, a USCIS of ficer consults with the consular post as
necessary to understand the consular of ficer's concerns. USCIS may then:
Issue a NOIR;[32] or
Reaf firm the orphan petition and send the case back to the appropriate U.S. consulate or
embassy , via the National V isa Center , for visa adjudication.
If USCIS reaf firms a petition but the consular of ficer believes that the applicant is not eligible for a visa
or discovers new evidence that the consular of ficer believes would result in a revocation request, the
DOS’ s Foreign Affairs Manual guides the consular of ficer’s next steps.[33]
6. Revocation
Automatic Revocation
An approved suitability application or orphan petition is automatically revoked as of the date of
approval if any one of the circumstances below occurs before the final decision on a child’ s application
for admission with an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status:
A change in the P AP’s marital status;[34] or
Any of the circumstances for automatic revocation of an immediate relative or family-sponsored
petitions applies.[35]
USCIS issues a notice to the petitioner of such revocation.[36]
Revocation on Notice
An orphan petition must be revoked when information is discovered that would have resulted in denial
had it been known at the time of adjudication.[37] Only USCIS of ficers have authority to revoke8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 969/2618