A. Results of the Medical Examination
The physician must annotate the results of the examination on the following forms:
Panel Physicians
Panel physicians must annotate the results of the immigration medical examination on the Electronic
Medical Examination for V isa or Refugee Applicant (Form DS-7794) or the Medical Examination for
Visa or Refugee Applicant (Form DS-2054), and related worksheets.
Civil Surgeons
Civil surgeons must annotate the immigration medical examination results on the Report of
Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ).
B. Documentation Completed by Panel Physician
Since a State Department consular of ficer reviews the medical documentation completed by a panel
physician as part of the overseas visa process, a USCIS of ficer may assume that the medical
documentation is properly completed.[1]
Applicants who have already been examined abroad and are not required to repeat the immigration
medical examination in the United States may still have to show proof of compliance with the
vaccination requirement.[2]
C. Documentation Completed by Civil Surgeon
1. Civil Surgeon Designation
Except for physicians who are Public Health Service of ficers, only physicians designated by USCIS to
act as civil surgeons may conduct an immigration medical examination in the United States and
complete Form I-693 .[3] Only doctors of medicine (M.D.) and doctors of osteopathy (D.O.) who are
currently licensed to practice as physicians may be designated.[4] The physician must be designated
as a civil surgeon at the time of the completion of the immigration medical examination.
To determine whether the physician is designated as a civil surgeon, the of ficer should consult the
designated civil surgeon list by using the Find a Civil Surgeon  webpage.
2. Complete Form
The following requirements must always be met regarding any Form I-693  submitted to USCIS:
The form must be completed legibly;
All required parts of the form must be completed;[5]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1899/2618