If the request relates to employment authorization, the request must demonstrate that the need for the
applicant to be authorized to work is critical to the mission of the requesting agency or department,
and goes beyond a general need to retain a particular worker or person. For example, an applicant for
employment authorization may warrant expedited processing based on government interests when the
applicant is a victim or witness who is cooperating with the government and needs employment
authorization because the respective agency is seeking back pay or reinstatement in court
proceedings.
5. Clear USCIS Error
USCIS may consider an expedite request based on clear USCIS error when a requestor establishes
an urgent need to correct the error . For example, an applicant who receives an Employment
Authorization Document with incorrect information that prevents them from being able to work may
request a replacement document on an expedited basis if USCIS caused the error .[6]
B. How to Request Expedited Processing
The process to request expedited processing may vary by form type and the of fice that has jurisdiction
over the benefit request. USCIS provides specific information on submitting expedite requests on
the Expedite Requests  webpage.
Benefit requestors must demonstrate their need for expedited processing. Generally , USCIS requires
documentation to support expedite requests. When additional documentation is needed, USCIS asks
the requestor to submit supporting evidence.
1. Premium Processing
A benefit requestor cannot request expedited processing for petitions and applications where premium
processing service  is available for their filing category unless they meet the exception for certain
nonprofit organizations.
A benefit requestor that is designated as a nonprofit organization by the IRS seeking a beneficiary
whose services are needed in furtherance of the cultural or social interests of the United States may
request that the benefit it seeks be expedited without a fee, even if premium processing is available for
that benefit.[7] USCIS retains discretion not to expedite the benefit request. The benefit requestor may
also request premium processing for the benefit.
C. How USCIS Processes Requests for Expedited T reatment
Using its discretion, USCIS considers expedite requests according to the criteria and circumstances
described above. Not every circumstance that fits under the criteria or examples above necessarily
results in expedited processing.[8]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 167/2618