If the applicant fails to establish extreme hardship, then the of ficer must deny the waiver application
because the applicant has not met the statutory requirements of the waiver . Before denying the
waiver , the of ficer should follow standard operating procedures regarding issuance of a Request for
Evidence or Notice of Intent to Deny . 
In general, a finding that the applicant has not shown extreme hardship is suf ficient to support a denial
of the waiver application. If the applicant has not established extreme hardship, then it is unnecessary
to determine whether the waiver would have been granted as a matter of discretion. There may be
instances, however , where the applicant’ s past actions were so egregious that the of ficer may want to
note in the decision that even if extreme hardship were found, the application would be denied as a
matter of discretion. 
If the applicant has established extreme hardship, the of ficer should proceed with the discretionary
determination. 
3. Analyze Whether the W aiver Should Be Granted as a Matter of Discretion
A fraud or willful misrepresentation waiver generally requires an of ficer to consider whether granting
the waiver is warranted as a matter of discretion. The of ficer should determine whether the applicant’ s
positive factors outweigh the negative factors. 
The finding of extreme hardship experienced by a qualifying relative (or the V AWA self-petitioner
himself or herself) is the first positive factor for consideration. The underlying fraud or willful
misrepresentation itself is the first negative factor to consider .[4] The nature, seriousness, and
underlying circumstances of the fraud or willful misrepresentation may influence the weight given to
this negative factor . Considerations include, but are not limited to: 
The facts and circumstances surrounding the fraud or willful misrepresentation;
The reasons and motivations of the applicant when the fraud or willful misrepresentation was
committed;
Age or mental capacity of the applicant when the fraud was committed;
Whether the applicant has engaged in a pattern of fraud or whether it was merely an isolated act
of misrepresentation;[5] and 
The nature of the proceedings in which the applicant committed the fraud
or willful misrepresentation.[6]
Footnotes
[^ 1] For more on inadmissibility for fraud and willful misrepresentation, see V olume 8,
Admissibility , Part J, Fraud and Willful Misrepresentation [ 8 USCIS-PM J ].8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2172/2618