T, and U-related benefit requests to anyone other than an of ficer or employee of DHS, the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ), or DOS for a legitimate agency purpose.[14]
This confidentiality provision is commonly referred to as “Section 384” because it originally became
law under Section 384 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) of
1996,[15] which protects the confidentiality of victims of domestic violence, traf ficking, and other crimes
who have filed for or have been granted immigration relief.
An unauthorized disclosure of information which relates to a protected person can have significant
consequences. USCIS employees must maintain confidentiality in these cases. V ictims of domestic
violence, victims of traf ficking, and victims of crimes can be put at risk, as can their family members, if
information is provided to a person who is not authorized.
Anyone who willfully uses, publishes, or permits any information pertaining to such victims to be
disclosed in violation of the above-referenced confidentiality provisions may face disciplinary action
and be subject to a civil penalty of up to $5,000 for each violation.
2. Scope of Confidentiality
Duration of Confidentiality Requirement
By law , the confidentiality provisions apply while a V AWA, T, or U case is pending and after it is
approved. The protections end when the request for immigration relief is denied and all opportunities
for appeal of the denial have been exhausted.
These protections also terminate once a protected person naturalizes. 8 U.S.C 1367 was drafted with
the intention of protecting the “alien.”[16] Naturalized U.S. citizens were not the intended category of
persons to be protected.
USCIS maintains the ability to reapply 8 U.S.C 1367 protections to naturalized U.S. citizens in limited
circumstances. For example, if a previously protected naturalized citizen’ s eligibility for citizenship
were called into question, the protections would be reinstated. Additionally , the derivative beneficiaries
of a protected naturalized U.S. citizen remain protected by statute until the beneficiaries become
naturalized U.S. citizens. 
Disclosure of Information  
The statute prevents DHS from disclosing any information which relates to a person protected under 8
U.S.C. 1367  (protected person), subject to certain limited exceptions.[17] This includes information
USCIS has in its records or other information about the protected person, even if those records do not
specifically identify the person as one who has sought V AWA, T, or U benefits. Consequently , USCIS
cannot disclose information about a protected person even if that information is not contained in a
VAWA, T, or U filing.[18]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 178/2618