In general, compelling circumstances are situations outside a principal applicant’ s control that
adversely af fect the principal applicant’ s ability to continue employment for the petitioning employer
and justify the issuance of an EAD.
The following non-exhaustive examples illustrate how certain situations could lead to a finding that
compelling circumstances exist.
Serious Illness and Disability
A principal applicant or their dependent faces a serious illness or disability that substantially changes
employment circumstances, such as requiring them to move to a dif ferent geographic area for their or
a dependent’ s treatment, or the illness or disability otherwise reduces or adversely af fects the principal
applicant’ s ability to continue their previously approved employment.
Leaving the United States would likely result in additional medical issues and interrupt the individual’ s
treatment plan and prognosis. A move to another part of the country to ensure proper medical care is
just one example of compelling circumstances resulting from a serious illness or disability of the
principal applicant or their family member .
Applicants in this situation or another situation involving serious illness and disability should provide an
explanation supported by evidence such as medical records and any relevant information relating to
their inability to continue in their nonimmigrant worker status.
Employer Dispute or Retaliation
A principal applicant is involved in a dispute regarding their employer's alleged illegal or other forms of
abusive conduct. The dispute may take the form of a whistleblower action, litigation, or other
documented dispute. If the employer retaliated against the principal applicant, the applicant should
submit evidence to substantiate the claim of employer retaliation, as evidence of retaliation may
support a finding that compelling circumstances exist. Employer retaliation is not limited to a
termination of employment. The retaliation may take any form that adversely af fects the principal
applicant’ s ability to continue employment, including harassment.[6]
Applicants involved in an employer dispute or claiming employer retaliation should provide an
explanation supported by evidence such as complaint details, correspondence with the employer , or
legal filings.
Other Substantial Harm to the Applicant
The principal applicant is unable to timely extend or otherwise maintain status, or obtain another
nonimmigrant status, and would suf fer substantial harm as a result. This harm may be financial or may
be due to an inability to return to their home country due to conditions there.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2222/2618