The mere assertion of extreme hardship alone does not establish a credible claim. Individuals applying
for a waiver of inadmissibility should provide suf ficient evidence to support and substantiate assertions
of extreme hardship to the qualifying relative(s). Each assertion should be accompanied by evidence
that substantively supports the claim absent a convincing explanation why the evidence is unavailable
and could not reasonably be obtained. The of ficer should closely examine the evidence to ensure that
it supports the applicant’ s claim of hardship to the qualifying relative.
To illustrate, an applicant who claims that the qualifying relative has severe, ongoing medical problems
will not likely be able to establish the existence of these problems without providing medical records
documenting the qualifying relative’ s condition. Of ficers cannot substitute their medical opinion for a
medical professional’ s opinion; instead the of ficer must rely on the expertise of reputable medical
professionals. 
A credible, detailed statement from a doctor may be more meaningful in establishing a claim than
dozens of test results that are dif ficult for the of ficer to decipher . However , nothing in such
a case changes the requirement that all evidence submitted by applicants should be considered to
evaluate the totality of the circumstances.
Similarly , if the applicant claims that the qualifying relative will experience severe financial dif ficulties,
the applicant will not likely be able to establish these dif ficulties without submitting financial
documentation. This could include, but is not limited to, bank account statements, employment and
income records, tax records, mortgage statements, leases, and proof of any other financial liabilities or
earnings.
If not all of the required initial evidence has been submitted, or the of ficer determines that the totality of
the evidence submitted does not meet the applicable standard of proof, the of ficer should issue
a Request for Evidence (RFE) in accordance with USCIS policy . 
In considering whether the applicant’ s evidence is suf ficient to meet the applicant’ s burden of proof,
the of ficer will consider whether the applicant has complied with applicable requirements to submit
information and supporting documentation and whether the evidence is credible, persuasive, and
refers to specific facts suf ficient to demonstrate that the burden of proof has been satisfied and that
applicant warrants a favorable exercise of discretion. In considering whether the applicant’ s evidence
is credible, the of ficer will consider the totality of the circumstances and all relevant factors and should
take into account the inherent plausibility and internal and external consistency of the evidence and
any inaccuracies or falsehoods in the evidence.
If evidence in the record leads the of ficer to reasonably believe that undocumented assertions of the
extreme hardship claim are true, the of ficer may accept the assertion as suf ficient to support the
extreme hardship claim. The preponderance of the evidence standard does not require any specific
form of evidence; it requires the applicant to demonstrate only that it is more likely than not that the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2142/2618