and Border Protection (CBP) primary authority to adjudicate TN applications for admission to the
United States.[14]
NAFT A/USMCA  Chapter 16, Annex 1603, Section (D)(2)(a)  specifies that no party to the agreement
may require prior approval procedures, petitions, labor certification tests, or other similar procedures
as a condition of such entry . This means that Canadian TN professionals may apply for admission
directly at:
A U.S. Class A port-of-entry;
An airport handling international flights; or
A pre-clearance or pre-flight station in Canada.
Canadian TN professionals may apply for admission to the United States without first filing a Petition
for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ) with USCIS or obtaining a nonimmigrant visa from the U.S.
Department of State (DOS). Unlike Canadian TN professionals, Mexican TN professionals may not
apply for admission directly with CBP . Mexican TN professionals must first obtain a TN nonimmigrant
visa from the U.S. Department of State (DOS). 
When applying to CBP  for admission, the TN professional must:
Meet all eligibility requirements as a TN professional;
Satisfy the inspecting CBP  officer that the proposed stay is temporary;[15] and
Comply with existing immigration measures applicable to admission into the United States as a
nonimmigrant, including proof of citizenship in a NAFT A/USMCA  signatory country .[16]
2. USCIS
A qualified Canadian or Mexican professional present in the United States may apply for an extension
of his or her TN status if he or she is currently in a valid TN status. In addition, such professionals who
are under a dif ferent valid nonimmigrant status may apply for a change of status to TN. In all cases,
such professionals must file a Petition for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ) with USCIS to do so.
[17]
USCIS also accepts and adjudicates Form I-129 petitions filed by Canadian TN professionals residing
outside the United States. If approved, the Canadian professional may present the approval notice to
a CBP  officer at the port of entry (as opposed to having to file an application for admission with CBP  to
enter under the TN classification as described above).
D. Legal Authorities
NAFT A/USMCA  Chapter 16  – Temporary entry for business persons
The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) (PDF)  – Protocol replacing the North
American Free Trade Agreement with the Agreement between Canada, the United States of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 622/2618