position of authority) of the entity or in another key role within the entity . Such evidence may have
probative value in demonstrating the petitioner is well positioned to advance the endeavor .
Degrees, Certifications, Licenses, Letters of Experience
This evidence may indicate that the petitioner has knowledge, skills, or experience that would
significantly advance the proposed endeavor being undertaken by the entity . Education and
employment history , along with other factors related to the petitioner ’s background, may serve to
corroborate the petitioner ’s claims. Some examples include successfully leading prior start-up entities
or having a combination of relevant degrees and experience to equip the petitioner to advance the
proposed endeavor .
Investments
An investment, binding commitment to invest, or other evidence demonstrating a future intent to invest
in the entity by an outside investor , consistent with industry standards, may provide independent
validation and support of a finding of the substantial merit of the proposed endeavor or the petitioner
being well positioned to advance the proposed endeavor .
This investment may come from persons, such as angel investors, or established organizations, such
as venture capital firms. Because dif ferent endeavors have dif ferent capital needs, USCIS also
considers the amount of capital that would be appropriate to advance the endeavor in determining
whether the petitioner has secured suf ficient investments.
Incubator or Accelerator Participation
Incubators are private or public entities that provide resources, support, and assistance to
entrepreneurs to foster the growth and development of an idea or enterprise. Accelerators are
generally private venture capital entities and focus on helping entrepreneurs and their start-ups speed
the launch, growth, and scale of their businesses.
Officers may consider evidence of an entrepreneur ’s admission into an incubator or accelerator as an
endorsement of the petitioner ’s proposed plan or past track record, and the petitioner being well
positioned to advance the endeavor . Petitioners may submit evidence of the past success of the
incubator for of ficers to consider when evaluating this evidence.
Awards or Grants
Relevant funds may come from federal, state, or local government entities with expertise in economic
development, research and development, or job creation. In addition, awards or grants may be given
by other entities, such as policy or research institutes. Like investment from outside investors, this
evidence may provide independent validation and support for a finding of substantial merit, national
importance, or both, of the proposed endeavor or the petitioner being well positioned to advance the
proposed endeavor .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1213/2618