Derivative beneficiaries of a qualifying immigrant visa petition or labor certification application are
grandfathered in their own right. These grandfathered derivative beneficiaries may adjust
independently from the principal beneficiary of the grandfathering petition or application. Accordingly ,
their current spouse and children may be eligible to adjust under the usual accompanying or following-
to-join rules.
Continuing Spouse or Child Relationship Required
The accompanying (or following-to-join) spouse or child must continue to have the qualifying
relationship with the principal adjustment applicant (grandfathered derivative beneficiary) both at the
time of filing and approval of their individual adjustment applications.[51]
Example: Child Derivative Beneficiary Now a Married Adult
Date Event
July 1, 1999 An alien enters the United States without inspection with his or her child.
April 30, 2001A family-based 4th preference immigrant visa petition is properly filed on
the alien’ s behalf and was approvable when filed. The alien is the principal
beneficiary of the immigrant petition. The alien’ s child is a derivative
beneficiary . For the purposes of adjustment of status under INA  245(i),
both the alien and the alien’ s child are grandfathered.
June 1, 2008 The child is now an adult and marries another alien.
March 1, 2010USCIS approves an employment-based petition filed on behalf of the
former child and the former child files an application for adjustment of
status seeking to utilize INA 245(i) .
In this example, the alien’ s qualifying petition serves to grandfather both the alien and the alien’ s child.
After marrying, the child is no longer considered a child for classification purposes and therefore can
no longer adjust with the grandfathered principal beneficiary as an accompanying (or following-to-join)
child. However , as a grandfathered derivative beneficiary , the former child may independently adjust
under a new basis. The former child’ s spouse may seek to adjust as an accompanying (or following-
to-join) spouse. The spouse, while not a grandfathered alien based on the 1999 petition in this
example, may adjust under INA 245(i)  as a derivative of his or her spouse[52] if necessary to
overcome any applicable adjustment bars, or may adjust under INA 245(a)  (if eligible).[53]
The following chart provides a summary of when the spouse or child of a grandfathered derivative
beneficiary of a qualifying immigrant visa petition or permanent labor certification application may be
eligible to accompany or follow-to-join under INA  245(i).
245(i) Adjustment Eligibility of Grandfathered Derivative Beneficiary’ s Spouse or Child8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1614/2618