The mere existence of other employees with similar knowledge should not, in and of itself, be a
ground for denial. Depending on the facts of the case, where there are already a significant number of
employees in the U.S. organization with the same claimed specialized knowledge as that of the
beneficiary , a question may arise as to whether the relevant position needs to be filled by a person
having specialized knowledge. Accordingly , officers should consider , as in other L-1B cases, whether
the evidence of record demonstrates the organization’ s need to transfer the beneficiary to the United
States. Further factors to consider may include:
Whether the petitioner has shown the need for another person with similar knowledge in the
organization’ s U.S. operations and the dif ficulty in transferring or teaching the relevant
knowledge to a person other than the beneficiary;
How the duties to be performed by the beneficiary that require their claimed specialized
knowledge may or may not dif fer from those already employed in the organization’ s U.S.
operations;
The extent to which the petitioning organization would suf fer economic inconvenience or
disruption to its U.S. or foreign-based operations if it were unable to transfer the beneficiary;[7]
Whether and to what degree the beneficiary’ s claimed specialized knowledge would be
beneficial to the successful conduct of the petitioner ’s operations; and
Whether the total compensation[8] provided to the beneficiary is comparable in dollar value to
similarly situated peers in such U.S. operations.[9]
Specialized Knowledge Workers Need Not Occupy Managerial or Similar Positions or Command
Higher Compensation
Unlike the L-1A  nonimmigrant classification, the L-1B nonimmigrant classification does not require that
the beneficiary be a manager or executive. Nor does the L-1B classification require that the
beneficiary be an of ficer or supervisor or hold any other similar position within the petitioning
organization. Although rank and compensation are factors that may be considered when analyzing
whether a beneficiary possesses specialized knowledge, there is no requirement that the beneficiary
be of a certain rank within the organization or that the beneficiary’ s compensation be elevated
compared to their peers within the organization or the particular industry .
There may be valid business reasons that one employee may be earning more or less than their
peers. A company in its early development, for example, may not yet have generated suf ficient income
to pay the beneficiary a greater salary . In creating the L-1B classification, Congress focused on the
beneficiary’ s knowledge, not their position on a company’ s organizational chart or pay scale.
Beneficiaries Must Have Required Specialized Knowledge at T ime of Filing
As with all eligibility criteria, the petitioner must show that the beneficiary meets the requisite criteria
and is eligible for the benefit at the time of filing.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 481/2618