The files should be maintained in such a way as to facilitate retrieval or review of information relating
to the specific civil surgeon. The file should be retained according to the established records retention
schedule.  
Updating Civil Surgeon List
The NBC should coordinate with External Affairs Directorate (EXA) to ensure the civil surgeon list is
updated in a timely manner to reflect all newly designated civil surgeons. At a minimum, the newly
designated civil surgeon’ s full name, name of medical practice, address, and telephone number
should be added to the list. Particular care should be taken when entering the civil surgeon’ s zip code
and telephone number since these are the primary ways that applicants search for civil surgeons.
3. Denial
If the application for civil surgeon designation is denied, the of ficer should do the following: 
Notification
Notify the physician in writing of the denial. There is no appeal from a decision denying designation as
a civil surgeon. However , the physician may file a motion to reopen or reconsider .[12] In the decision
denying designation as a civil surgeon, the of ficer must notify the physician of the possibility to file a
timely motion to reopen or reconsider . 
A physician who is denied designation is not precluded from reapplying for civil surgeon designation.
In the decision denying designation as a civil surgeon, the of ficer should also notify the physician that
he or she may reapply if the physician believes that he or she has overcome the reason(s) for denial.
[13]
Files
Create a new file for each physician who was denied designation; or , if a file for the physician already
exists, the of ficer should update the file to reflect the denial of the designation. 
4. File Maintenance
The files should be maintained in such a way as to facilitate retrieval or review of information relating
to the specific civil surgeon. The file should be retained according to the established records retention
schedule.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 232.2 . In some circumstances, District Directors had delegated the designation
authority to Field Of fice Directors in their districts.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1938/2618