information has been declassified.[87] This information cannot be provided in any form, including
summarized in a detailed description or verbally during an interview .
Other Agency Records
USCIS generally does not disclose records owned by another agency[88] unless USCIS is authorized
to use or share such information.[89] However , USCIS may disclose the information in a detailed
description if the benefit requestor or alien beneficiary provided that information to the U.S.
Government agency (USGA) himself or herself or if permission is granted by the USGA  owner and
subject to the terms and conditions of applicable data sharing agreements, such as the agreement
between USCIS and the U.S. Department of State (DOS) on disclosure authorization requirements.
[90]
USCIS of ficers are responsible for following information security controls, as established by DHS
policies and federal laws, that protect federal operations and assets when sharing or using information
across agencies.[91] Other agency information includes records from DOS and other agencies outside
of USCIS or DHS.
If other agency records yield information upon which USCIS intends to make an adverse decision and
that information was provided by the benefit requestor or alien beneficiary , is clearly attributable to the
benefit requestor or alien beneficiary , is not based exclusively on the other agency’ s records and is
otherwise disclosable, or the benefit requestor is already aware of the information, USCIS may
confront the benefit requestor with it in an interview or disclose the information in a NOID, whichever
applies.
2. Derogatory Information Containing Details That May or May Not Be Disclosed
Derogatory information may be found in any evidence, document, or statement relevant to the benefit
request. The sections below discuss dif ferent types of information an of ficer may encounter that may
include derogatory information for potential use in an adverse decision, and which parts of such
derogatory information may or may not be disclosed.
Private Information
Derogatory information is sometimes found in documents or statements that contain information that
may cause harm or embarrassment to an individual or that may be protected by privacy laws.[92]
USCIS may generally disclose this type of information but may be restricted from providing certain
details, such as personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive personally identifiable
information (SPII). In some cases, certain information may be disclosed if permission is obtained from
the individual about whom the information pertains.
Information Designated as Law Enforcement Sensitive (LES) or Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU),
including For Official Use Only (FOUO)8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 284/2618