An applicant who originally applied for adjustment as the spouse of a U.S. citizen, but now
prefers to adjust under an employment-based category in order to avoid the conditional
residence requirements.[1] 
An applicant who applied for adjustment concurrently with a pending employment-based petition
in one preference category and subsequently had another employment-based petition filed by a
different (future) employer in a dif ferent preference category .
An applicant who applied for adjustment based on a pending or approved special immigrant
petition and now wishes to adjust based on a subsequently filed family or employment-based
petition.
An applicant who applied for adjustment based on an approved or pending immigrant petition,
but is now a Diversity V isa Program lottery winner .
The decision to grant or deny a transfer request is always discretionary . There are several factors to
consider when determining whether to grant a transfer request.
A. Eligibility Requirements
When considering a request to transfer the basis of an adjustment application, the
officer should consider the following guidance.
1. Continuing Eligibility to Adjust Status
In order to transfer an adjustment application from one basis to another , there must be no break in the
continuity of the applicant’ s underlying eligibility to adjust prior to submitting the transfer request. If an
applicant does not maintain eligibility up until the transfer is requested, a transfer cannot be granted.
The date the transfer request is received is the controlling date for determining whether the eligibility
continued, not the date the actual transfer request is reviewed or granted.
Example: Transfer Request Involving Break in Continuity of Underlying Eligibility
Date Event
May 16, 2010An applicant has a family-based petition approved based on marriage to a
lawful permanent resident.
June 16, 2010The applicant applies for adjustment of status based on the approved
petition.
August 4, 2010 The applicant divorces his permanent resident spouse.
September 23, 2010 The applicant marries a U.S. citizen.
October 1, 2010The applicant’ s new spouse files a petition for the applicant based on the
new marriage.
November 10, 2010 The applicant appears for an adjustment of status interview with a divorce
decree from the first marriage, a marriage certificate from the current8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1501/2618