For example, if the alien became a selectee for fiscal year 2021, they would need to become an LPR
by September 30, 2021. After September 30, a selectee is no longer eligible for a DV and may not
adjust status. Since some selectees will be ineligible for a DV or will not complete the DV process in
the time allotted, DOS usually chooses more DV Program selectees than there are available visas.
Consequently , not all selectees will have a visa number available.[49]
C. Visa Availability
An adjustment of status applicant must have an immigrant visa immediately available at the time of
filing the adjustment application and at the time of final adjudication.[50]
1. Rank Numbers and the V isa Bulletin
For selectees present in the United States, a selectee’ s rank number determines when an immigrant
visa number is immediately available both for purposes of filing for adjustment of status and for
purposes of visa allocation.[51] DOS assigns each selectee a specific rank number , which is tied to a
specific regional area, in the DV selection letter .[52] For example, a selectee who is a native of Albania
receives a rank number for the Europe region.
DOS is responsible for allocating all numerically limited immigrant visas, including DVs. DOS
publishes a monthly report of visa availability referred to as the Visa Bulletin . DOS, in coordination with
USCIS, revises the V isa Bulletin each month to estimate immigrant visa availability for prospective
immigrants. DOS publishes the V isa Bulletin before the beginning of the month it takes ef fect. For
example, DOS publishes the V isa Bulletin for March in mid-February .[53]
The V isa Bulletin includes two charts concerning DV rank numbers and visa availability:[54]
The current month’ s DV availability chart; and
The advance notification chart with DV availability for the next month.
These two charts determine when a selectee may file for adjustment of status and when DOS may
allocate an immigrant visa number so that USCIS may approve an otherwise eligible DV -based
adjustment application.
2. When Selectees May File for Adjustment of Status
DV numbers are available for purposes of visa allocation only for selectees with rank numbers below
the cut-of f numbers in the current month’ s DV availability chart. The advance notification chart
provides a preview of upcoming rank number cut-of fs to help ensure timely filing and adjudication of
DV adjustment applications.
A selectee may file an adjustment of status application when the selectee’ s rank number is below the
appropriate regional rank number cut-of f in either:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1739/2618