The new job of fer may be with the same petitioner or with an entirely new employer , including self-
employment. Applicants can submit the portability request and evidence with the adjustment
application or in any in-person interviews or in response to a request or other notice from USCIS.
2. Approved Petition Required
If USCIS has approved an applicant’ s Form I-140 petition and the applicant’ s adjustment application
remained unadjudicated for 180 days or more (from the adjustment application receipt date), the
approved petition remains valid unless the petition’ s approval is later substantively revoked. This
applies even if the applicant changes jobs or employers so long as the new of fer of employment is in
the same or similar occupation. If the adjustment application has been pending for less than 180 days,
the approved petition does not remain valid with respect to a new of fer of employment.
An unadjudicated petition is not valid merely because the petition was filed with USCIS or through the
passage of 180 days. Rather , the petition must have been filed on behalf of an alien who was entitled
to the employment-based classification at the time that the petition was filed, and therefore must be
approved prior to a favorable determination on a portability request. If at any time USCIS revokes
approval of the petition, the applicant is not eligible for the job flexibility provisions of Section 106(c) of
AC21.[6]
In revocation cases, the of ficer adjudicating the adjustment application may deny the adjustment
application and Supplement J request. In all cases, an of fer of employment must have been valid and
the employer must have had the intent (at the time the petition was approved) to employ the
beneficiary upon adjustment.
3. Withdrawal of Petition
In general, if USCIS receives a request from a petitioner to withdraw a pending Form I-140 petition,
USCIS issues an acknowledgment of the withdrawal request and denies any corresponding
adjustment application. However , if the pending petition is approvable and the adjustment application
was pending for 180 days or more, the petition may remain valid for priority date retention and
possible eligibility under INA  204(j) for the adjustment application.[7]
In addition, if USCIS receives a request from a petitioner to withdraw a petition that has been
approved for fewer than 180 days, and any corresponding adjustment application has not been
pending for at least 180 days (or has not been filed), USCIS automatically revokes the approval of the
petition.[8] However , if USCIS receives a withdrawal request from a petitioner 180 days or more after
the approval of the petition, or a corresponding adjustment application has been pending for 180 days
or more, the petition remains valid for priority date retention. The applicant may be eligible under INA
204(j) for the adjustment application (unless USCIS revokes the approval of the petition under
substantive grounds) if he or she satisfies all of the requirements to port based on a new same or8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1637/2618