H-1B employment is October 1, but the beneficiary’ s OPT  employment authorization may expire
before the H-1B start date.
Current regulations allow certain F-1 students with a pending or approved cap-subject H-1B petition to
remain in F-1 status during the cap-gap period. The regulations provide a way of filling the gap
between the end of F-1 status and the beginning of H-1B status that might otherwise occur when F-1
status is not extended for qualifying students.
Once the listed requirements above are met, the automatic cap-gap extension begins and continues
until October 1, or until the H-1B petition is rejected, denied, revoked, or withdrawn, or upon the denial
or withdrawal of the request for change of nonimmigrant status, even if USCIS approves the H-1B
petition filed on the F-1 student’ s behalf for consular processing.[71] The F-2 status of dependents is
also extended if the F-1 student’ s status is extended. F-2s are not eligible for employment
authorization.
F-1 students who do not qualify for a cap-gap extension because they do not meet the requirements
noted above, and whose periods of authorized stay expire before October 1, are required to leave the
United States, apply for an H-1B visa at a consular post abroad, and seek readmission to the United
States in H-1B status for the dates reflected on the approved H-1B petition.
If an H-1B cap-subject petition is filed on the behalf of an F-1 student who has entered the 60-day
grace period, the F-1 student will receive the automatic cap-gap extension of the student’ s F-1 status,
but will not become employment-authorized (since the F-1 student was not employment-authorized at
the time H-1B petition was filed, there is no employment authorization to be extended).
Unemployment during the cap-gap automatic extension counts toward the 90-day (post- completion
OPT) or 150-day (for STEM OPT  extension) cumulative maximum allowed unemployment.
2. Termination of Cap-gap Extension
If the student’ s H-1B petition is rejected, denied, withdrawn, or revoked, or if the student’ s change of
status request is denied or withdrawn, the student has the standard 60-day grace period from the date
of the rejection, denial, withdrawal, revocation notice, or the student’ s program or OPT  end date,
whichever is later , to prepare for and depart the United States.[72]
If USCIS denies the H-1B change of status request due to a status violation, misrepresentation, or
fraud, the F-1 student is ineligible for the cap-gap extension of status and the 60-day grace period. If
USCIS revoked the H-1B petition based on a finding of a status violation, fraud, or misrepresentation
discovered following approval, the 60-day grace period and cap-gap extension of status does not
apply . In both of these instances, students are required to immediately leave the United States.
3. Travel Outside the United States During the Cap-gap8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 406/2618