the length and nature of those services are not limited and defined.[28] Appendix: Case Law
References for T Visa Adjudications [ 3 USCIS-PM B, Appendices Tab] lists decisions that may provide
additional clarification on the concept of debt bondage.
Slavery
The term slavery is not defined in the TVPA or regulations, but is generally understood to mean the
state of being held under the complete and total ownership or control of another person or entity and
being deprived of liberty , autonomy , and independence for the purpose of subjecting the victim to
forced labor or services.
5. Definition of Sex T rafficking
Sex traf ficking is the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, obtaining, patronizing, or
soliciting of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act.[29] A commercial sex act is any sex act
on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person.[30] For sex traf ficking to
constitute a severe form of traf ficking in persons, the commercial sex act must generally have been
induced by force, fraud, or coercion.[31] However , a minor under the age of 18 who engages in a
commercial sex act meets the definition of a victim of a severe form of traf ficking in persons without
having to show force, fraud, or coercion. This is because minors under the age of 18 cannot consent
to sexual acts.
6. Key Principles of T rafficking in Persons
Actual Labor or Services Need Not Have Been Performed
In determining whether an applicant has been a victim of a severe form of traf ficking, it is not
necessary for the victim to actually perform the labor or commercial sex act(s) to be eligible for T
nonimmigrant status. For example, a victim may be recruited through force, fraud, or coercion for the
purpose of performing labor or services but be rescued or have escaped before performing any labor
or services.
Appendix: Case Law References for T Visa Adjudications [ 3 USCIS-PM B, Appendices Tab] lists
decisions that may provide additional clarification on the concepts of labor and services. The statutory
definitions of traf ficking include acts committed “for the purpose of” subjecting someone to a form of
trafficking. Therefore, the statute does not require the victim to actually perform the labor or services.
Compensation is Not Determinative
A worker who is paid some or all the promised wages may still be a victim of traf ficking. The fact that
an applicant was paid a salary or wage for work is not determinative of whether the applicant was
subjected to one of the federal traf ficking crimes.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 655/2618