The third party (such as a governmental agency , court of competent jurisdiction, adoption
agency , or orphanage) must have been authorized under the Convention country's child welfare
laws to act in such a capacity; and 
The transfer must have been permanent and unconditional with the intent to terminate the legal
parent-child relationship. 
To meet the definition of abandonment, the petitioner must establish by a preponderance of evidence
that the child’ s parent abandoned the child.[10] If a written document is used to help establish this, the
document must:
Specify whether the parent(s) who signed the document were able to read and understand the
language in which the document is written; or 
If the parent(s) are not able to read or understand the language in which the document is written,
then the document must be accompanied by a declaration by an identified person, establishing
that the identified person is competent to translate the language in the document into a language
that the parent(s) understand and that the identified person, on the date and at the place
specified in the declaration, read and explained the document to the parent(s) in a language that
the parent(s) understand. The declaration must also indicate the language used to provide this
explanation. 
4. Desertion 
Desertion means that a child's parent has willfully forsaken the child, refused to carry out their rights
and obligations, and that, as a result, the child has become a ward of a competent authority in
accordance with the laws of the Convention country .[11]
Desertion does not mean that the parent has disappeared, but rather that they refuse to carry out their
parental rights and obligations towards the child. Desertion dif fers from abandonment in that the
parent has not taken steps to divest themselves of parental duties, but the parent’ s inaction has
caused a local authority to step in to assume custody of the child.
C. Other Legal Parents
USCIS considers a parent to include any person who is related to a child in any of the ways specified
in the definition under U.S. immigration law .[12] The of ficer must determine for each parent whether
the person has legal rights to the child in accordance with the Convention country’ s laws. If the of ficer
determines that a person is a legal parent, the of ficer must determine whether the child still meets the
Convention adoptee definition in light of the legal parent.
Stepparents
USCIS must consider the existence of a stepparent in determining whether a child is a Convention
adoptee.[13] The of ficer must determine whether the stepparent has a legal parent-child relationship8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 984/2618