Customer Service Inquiries
Due to 8 U.S.C. 1367 protections, protected persons have specialized customer service options for
their case inquiries to USCIS. As noted above, benefit requestors with pending or approved V AWA, T,
or U-related cases may request customer service via the USCIS Contact Center  at 1-800-375-5283
(TTY : 1-800-767-1833). USCIS must verify the identity of the person inquiring about a confidential
case and verify that person’ s eligibility to receive information before providing any information or other
requested service. To access Contact Center services, protected persons calling about a particular
form (or forms) should have their receipt notice(s) on hand for reference during the call. They should
also have a copy of the pending or approved application or petition that they are calling about readily
available, if possible.
For more information related to how to make customer service inquiries for protected persons who
have V AWA, T, and-U related filings, see the USCIS Contact Us  webpage.
4. Mailing Address Procedures for Persons Protected Under 8 U.S.C. 1367
Defining “Safe Mailing Address” and “Preferred Mailing Address” 
USCIS is committed to incorporating victim-centered approaches into agency policies, programs, and
procedures related to interactions with protected persons.
A critical component of this approach is the prioritization of victim safety and autonomy . Under this
framework, USCIS acknowledges that protected persons are best positioned to make decisions about
where correspondence should be directed.
USCIS has policies and procedures in place so that information related to protected persons is
disclosed only to authorized parties.[24] In the context of mailed correspondence, USCIS has
implemented procedures to minimize the risk of unauthorized parties viewing the protected
information. Many of the forms that initiate the 8 U.S.C. 1367  protections (victim-based forms) include
a specific address field for a designated “safe mailing address.”[25]
Other forms may not have a designated safe mailing address field, but instead may include space to
provide a mailing address that may be dif ferent from the person’ s home or physical address (referred
to in this guidance as the “preferred mailing address”). When a form does not have a safe mailing
address field, but the protected person has listed a preferred mailing address, USCIS considers the
preferred mailing address to be a safe and secure address to use for notices, correspondence, and
secure identity documents for the protected person. The safe mailing address or preferred mailing
address may change over time as the protected person files new benefit requests or submits a
request to change their address.[26]
Adjudication of Non-V ictim-Based Benefit Requests8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 181/2618