lack of childcare options available to ZA, he will be required to become the sole caregiver of the
children, while simultaneously striving to maintain his role as the family’ s sole income earner .
If ZA is unable to retain his job due to the assumption of primary caregiving responsibilities, he will
lose the income necessary to support his children. The dual burden of being both the primary income
earner and sole caregiver will create significant psychological, emotional, and financial stresses for
ZA. Additionally , the evidence shows that the displacement of childcare would impact the emotional
state and development of the children, which would require further care and attention on the part of
ZA.
Analysis of Scenario 8
These facts would generally favor a finding of extreme hardship. Although ZA ’s children are not
qualifying relatives for purposes of demonstrating extreme hardship in this case, the hardship to ZA
caused by becoming primarily responsible for the children’ s care, while maintaining his role as primary
income earner , would implicate the particularly significant factor for substantial displacement of care of
the applicant’ s children.
In this case, ZA  and XY  submitted credible evidence that XY  cannot contribute to the family’ s needs,
that ZA  is unable to earn suf ficient income for family needs if he must assume primary caregiving
responsibilities, and that ZA  otherwise lacks the resources or support network to replace either the
primary caregiving responsibilities he would need to assume or the primary income-earning role that
has been the source of the family’ s support.
The evidence also shows that the displacement of childcare would impact the children in a manner
that would require additional care and attention by ZA  and would thus further impact ZA ’s ability to
care for his children. Absent other facts that diminish the impacts of the separation, this scenario
would generally rise to the level of extreme hardship based on the totality of the circumstances.
Alternatively , this particularly significant factor may also be presented in a case where the applicant is
the primary income earner and the qualifying relative is the primary caretaker of the children. If the
applicant is refused admission, the qualifying relative could be required, depending on the
circumstances, to take on the additional responsibilities of being the primary income earner in addition
to continuing his or her role as primary caretaker .
In cases where this heightened responsibility would threaten the qualifying relative’ s ability to meet
basic subsistence needs for the family , the significant emotional and psychological stress caused by
the added burdens would often weigh heavily in support of a finding of extreme hardship.[23]
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2138/2618