applicant would be harmed.[81] However , if the harm in a particular case is outweighed by the other
factors, then the of ficer may deem a prior parole an admission in that case.
USCIS expects that, under the Retail Union  test, retroactive application of the current policy is
appropriate in most adjustment of status applications and favorable to the applicants.
6. Asylum[82]
An asylee whose adjustment application is based on his or her asylee status adjusts under INA
209(b) .[83] An asylee, however , may seek to adjust under INA 245(a)  if the asylee prefers to adjust on
a basis other than the asylee’ s status. This may arise in cases where, for example, an asylee marries
a U.S. citizen and subsequently seeks to adjust status as an immediate relative of a U.S. citizen rather
than under the asylee provision. In order to adjust under INA  245(a), however , the asylee must meet
the eligibility requirements that apply under that provision.
There may be circumstances where asylees are not able to meet certain requirements for adjustment
under INA 245(a) . For instance, an alien who enters without inspection and is subsequently granted
asylum does not satisfy the inspected and admitted or inspected and paroled requirement.[84] On the
other hand, an asylee who departs the United States and is admitted or granted parole upon return to
a port of entry meets the inspected and admitted or inspected and paroled requirement.
7. Waved Through at Port-of-Entry
In some cases, an alien may claim that he or she arrived at a port of entry and presented himself or
herself for inspection as an alien, but the inspector waved (allowed to pass) him or her through the
port of entry without asking any questions.
Where an alien physically presents himself or herself for questioning and makes no knowing false
claim to U.S. citizenship, the alien is considered to have been inspected even though he or she
volunteers no information and is asked no questions by the immigration authorities. Such an
alien satisfies the inspected and admitted requirement of INA 245(a)  as long as the alien suf ficiently
proves that he or she was indeed waved through by an immigration of ficial at a port of entry .[85]
An of ficer may find that an adjustment applicant satisfies the inspected and admitted requirement
based on a claim that he or she was waved through at a port of entry if:
The applicant submits evidence to support the claim, such as third-party af fidavits from those
with personal knowledge of the facts stated in the af fidavits and corroborating documentation;
and
The of ficer determines that the claim is credible.[86]
The burden of proof is on the applicant to establish eligibility for adjustment of status.[87] Accordingly ,
the applicant must support and suf ficiently establish the claim that he or she was admitted as an8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1543/2618