USCIS is a competent authority that can make a factual determination of habitual residence when a
child is present in the United States. Accordingly , USCIS may determine that a child living in the
United States is habitually resident in the United States. If USCIS makes such a determination, the
Hague Adoption Convention would not apply to the adoption of the child.[11]
Language in the adoption order alone is not suf ficient to establish that the Hague Adoption Convention
does not apply to a particular case. Although an adoption order issued by a court in the United States
may contain language indicating that the adoptee beneficiary was not habitually resident in the
adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin or that the adoption is not governed by the Hague Adoption
Convention, such language is not determinative. Only USCIS can determine whether the Hague
Adoption Convention applies when adjudicating the family-based petition. 
USCIS must generally know whether the Central Authority of the child’ s country of origin still considers
the child habitually resident in that country before USCIS can determine if a child is habitually resident
in the United States. USCIS denies any family-based petition filed for an adoptee beneficiary in the
United States if the Central Authority of the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin advises the U.S.
government, the petitioner , or the U.S. court with jurisdiction over the adoption that it considers an
adoptee beneficiary to remain habitually resident in the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin, despite
the adoptee beneficiary’ s presence in the United States.
If the Central Authority of the adoptee beneficiary’ s country of origin states that it considers the
adoptee beneficiary to be habitually resident in that country , the petitioner(s) must follow the Hague
Adoption Convention process.[12]
If the child is present in the United States, the petitioner may establish the child is not habitually
resident in the Hague Adoption Convention country by providing either:
A written statement from the child’ s country of origin indicating the child is no longer deemed
habitually resident in that country;[13] or
If the petitioner cannot obtain such written statement, evidence that the petitioner meets intent,
actual residence, and notice criteria.[14]
B. W ritten Statement for Adoptee Beneficiary Physically Present in United States
In order to establish that the child is not habitually resident in the Hague Adoption Convention country ,
the petitioner may submit:
An adoption order or an amended adoption[15] order that expressly states that the Central
Authority of the other Hague Adoption Convention country advised the adoption court in the
United States in a written statement that the Central Authority is aware of the adoptee
beneficiary’ s presence in the United States, and of the proposed adoption, and that the Central8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1023/2618