USCIS has 120 days from the date of the initial naturalization interview to issue a decision. If the
decision is not issued within 120 days of the interview , an applicant may request judicial review of his
or her application in district court. The of ficer must base his or her decision on the laws, regulations,
precedent decisions, and governing policies.
The of ficer may:
Approve the application;
Continue the examination without making a decision (if more information is needed), if the
applicant needs to be rescheduled, or for other relevant reasons; or
Deny the application.
The of ficer must provide the applicant with a notice of results at the end of the interview regardless of
the outcome. The notice should address the outcome of the interview and the next steps involved for
continued cases.[1]
A. Approval of Naturalization Application
If an of ficer approves a naturalization application, the application goes through the appropriate internal
procedures before the USCIS of fice schedules the applicant to appear at a ceremony for the
administration of the Oath of Allegiance.[2] The internal procedures include a “re-verification”
procedure where all approved applications are reviewed for quality . The of ficer who conducts the re-
verification is not the same of ficer who conducts the interview . While the of ficer conducting the re-
verification process does not adjudicate the application once again, the of ficer may raise any
substantive eligibility issues.
USCIS does not schedule an applicant for the Oath of Allegiance in cases where USCIS receives or
identifies potentially disqualifying information about the applicant after approval of his or her
application.[3] If USCIS cannot resolve the disqualifying information and the adjudicating of ficer finds
the applicant ineligible for naturalization, USCIS then issues a motion to reopen and re-adjudicates the
naturalization application.
B. Continuation of Examination
1. Continuation to Request Evidence
An of ficer issues the applicant a written Request for Evidence if additional information is needed to
make an accurate determination on the naturalization application.[4] In general, USCIS permits a
period of 30 days for the applicant to respond to a Request for Evidence.[5]
The Request for Evidence should include:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2277/2618