A valid, unexpired U.S. passport or a CRBA  serves as evidence of a person’ s U.S. citizenship.[59] An
applicant for a Certificate of Citizenship may submit a valid and unexpired U.S. passport or a CRBA  as
evidence of U.S. citizenship.[60] The of ficer must review the valid U.S. passport or CRBA  and the
documentation submitted with the application and contained in the record to determine if it was issued
properly .
The of ficer approves the Application for Certificate of Citizenship if the applicant is a U.S. citizen and
meets all requirements.
3. Request to Revoke U.S. Passport or Cancel Consular Report of Birth Abroad
If the of ficer determines that the applicant is not a U.S. citizen or has evidence indicating that a U.S.
passport or CRBA  submitted as evidence was obtained or issued illegally , fraudulently , or erroneously ,
the of ficer reviews the case with USCIS counsel. Then, if appropriate, the of ficer may request that
DOS revoke the U.S. passport or cancel the CRBA.[61]
Only DOS has the authority to revoke a U.S. passport or cancel a CRBA.[62] DOS may revoke a U.S.
passport or cancel a CRBA  in cases where the passport or CRBA  was obtained or issued illegally ,
fraudulently , or erroneously .[63]
USCIS provides the following information to DOS in the passport revocation or CRBA  cancellation
request:
The applicant’ s complete biographic information, including name and any known aliases;
The applicant’ s last known address;
All previous unexpired U.S. passport numbers and alien registration numbers (A-numbers);
A copy of the CRBA  or of the biographical page of the U.S. passport submitted as evidence (if
available);
An explanation for requesting revocation or cancellation, including reasons for the request,
analysis of the facts and dates used in determining that the passport or CRBA  should be revoked
or cancelled, and evaluation of evidence indicating that the applicant did not acquire U.S.
citizenship;
Copies of all documentary evidence in support of the request, including certified translations of
any documents written or originally prepared in a foreign language; and
The contact information of the USCIS of fice making the request.
Adjudication of Application with Revocation or Cancellation Request
After reviewing the case on the merits and requesting a revocation of a U.S. passport or a cancellation
of a CRBA  from DOS, the of ficer generally may not complete the adjudication of the Application for
Certificate of Citizenship until DOS responds.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2493/2618