2. Successor ’s Burden of Proof
The successor bears the burden of proof to establish all elements of eligibility as of the priority date,
including the provision of required evidence from the predecessor entity , such as evidence of the
predecessor ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage.
In order to establish its eligibility as a successor-in-interest petitioner and the beneficiary's eligibility for
the visa classification, the successor must demonstrate that the beneficiary met all the criteria for the
visa classification. This includes the predecessor's ability to pay the prof fered wage from the date of
the filing of the permanent labor certification with DOL  until the date of the transfer of the ownership of
the predecessor to the successor .
The successor must meet the definition of "employer" and demonstrate the ability to pay the prof fered
wage as of the date of the transfer of ownership of the predecessor to the successor , continuing until
the time of immigrant visa issuance or the beneficiary's adjustment of status in the United States.[11]
In cases of sales of discrete operational divisions or units of the predecessor ,[12] the predecessor's
ability to pay the prof fered wage should be analyzed by considering the financial data relating to the
predecessor entity , not just the business unit.
The evidence in the petition must also show that the beneficiary possessed the minimum education
and work experience requirements specified on the permanent labor certification, as of the filing date
of the permanent labor certification with DOL.
Example
A petitioner files and obtains a DOL-approved permanent labor certification for an architect. The
petitioner then becomes insolvent in the following year and is unable to meet its existing financial
obligations. The firm is ultimately acquired by another architectural firm, which files a successor
petition on the beneficiary's behalf.
In this case the second factor is not met because the predecessor entity did not possess the ability to
pay the beneficiary's wage from the time of filing of the permanent labor certification until the
acquisition of the predecessor by the successor .
The successor would have to conduct a new test of the labor market for the job opportunity through
the filing of a permanent labor certification application with DOL. Conversely , if the predecessor had
remained solvent until the time that it was acquired by the successor , then the second factor may be
met if all other areas of eligibility are established.
3. Transfer and Assumption of Ownership
For a valid successor-in-interest relationship to exist between the successor and the predecessor that
filed the permanent labor certification, the petition must fully describe and document the transfer and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1097/2618