The reason(s) for the request;
The availability or unavailability of documentation to support the new claim;
The degree of dif ficulty in obtaining needed receipt files from other USCIS of fices;
The degree of dif ficulty in determining the applicant’ s continued eligibility from the first underlying
petition or basis; and 
The extent of processing steps already taken on the adjustment application. 
All of these factors may result in processing delays which may be unacceptable to USCIS or the
applicant. Requests that involve jurisdiction constraints or dif ficulties, or that are projected to greatly
lengthen the processing time of the adjustment application, may result in the request being denied.
6. Other Eligibility Consideration
Transfer to INA  245(i) as New Underlying Basis for Adjustment
If an applicant initially filed for adjustment under INA 245(i)  and paid the required additional $1000 fee,
then the applicant need not pay again when requesting a transfer as long as continuity of eligibility is
maintained during the transfer . However , if the applicant’ s initial adjustment application was not under
the provisions of INA  245(i), and the applicant is now seeking a transfer to a basis which qualifies
under INA  245(i), then the applicant must pay the additional $1,000 and file Supplement A to Form I-
485, Adjustment of Status Under Section 245(i) ( Form I-485, Supplement A). 
Special Programs Containing Filing Deadlines
Certain programs[8] require that an applicant apply for adjustment of status by a given statutory
deadline. In order to transfer the basis of an adjustment application to one of these special programs,
the applicant would have to make the request no later than the filing deadline of the special program.
B. Filing Requirements
1. New Application or Fee Not Required[9]
Generally , no new adjustment application or filing fee is required when requesting a transfer of the
underlying basis. As noted above, however , a request to convert to an INA 245(i)  adjustment would
require payment of the additional $1,000 fee and filing of Form I-485, Supplement A.[10]
2. Request Must Be Made in W riting
The adjustment applicant must request in writing that USCIS transfer the applicant's pending
adjustment application from one basis to another .[11]
If an applicant verbally requests transfer of the basis of a pending adjustment application, for instance,
during the adjustment interview , the applicant should sign and date a written statement to that ef fect
and the of ficer should place the signed statement into the record of proceeding. The interview could8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1505/2618