USCIS recognizes that this derivative family category is based on “a present danger of retaliation” and
different family members may face a danger of retaliation at dif ferent times. The T-6’s family member
does not have to hold derivative status at the time of the T-6 application.
For example, if the principal’ s spouse held T-2 status but then died before the principal files for T-6
status for the spouse’ s adult child, the adult child may still be eligible for T-6 status. Additionally , if a
parent who had obtained T-4 status allowed that status to lapse without extending it, the T-4 parent’ s
adult or minor child could still be eligible for T-6 status if the child faced a present danger of retaliation.
D. Family Relationship at T ime of Filing
1. General Rule
Generally , subject to age-out protections and except as specified in subsections 2 through 4, the
family relationship must exist at each of the following times:
When the applicant files the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status;[12]
When USCIS adjudicates the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status;
When the applicant files the application for derivative T nonimmigrant status;
When USCIS adjudicates the application for derivative T nonimmigrant status; and
When the eligible family member is admitted to the United States, if residing abroad.
2. Spousal Relationship Must Exist When Principal’ s Application is Adjudicated
USCIS evaluates whether the marriage creating the qualifying spousal relationship or stepchild and
stepparent relationship exists at the time of adjudication of the principal’ s application and thereafter .
Principal applicants who marry while their application is pending may file Form I-914, Supplement A on
behalf of their spouse, even if the relationship did not exist at the time they filed their principal
application.[13] Similarly , the principal applicant may file for a stepparent or stepchild if the qualifying
relationship was created after they filed their principal application but before it was approved.[14] 
3. Requirement to Be Unmarried
An eligible child seeking T-3 nonimmigrant status or eligible sibling seeking T-5 nonimmigrant status
must be unmarried:
When the principal files the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status;
When USCIS adjudicates the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status;
When the principal files an application on behalf of an eligible family member for derivative T-3 or
T-5 nonimmigrant status;
When USCIS adjudicates the application for derivative T-3 or T-5 nonimmigrant status; and
When the family member is admitted to the United States, if residing abroad.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 691/2618