Retention of the earlier priority date includes cases where a change of petitioner has occurred;
however , the new petitioner must obtain a new permanent labor certification if the classification
requested requires a permanent labor certification.[6]
2. Effect of Denial of Petition on Priority Date
If a Schedule A petition or a petition that does not require permanent labor certification is denied, no
priority date is established. In addition, no priority date is established by an individual permanent labor
certification if a petition based upon that certification was never filed and there is a change of petitioner
(except in successor-in-interest cases).[7]
3. Priority Date Based on Earlier Petition
If a beneficiary is the beneficiary of two (or more) approved petitions, the priority date of the earlier
petition may be applied to all subsequently filed petitions.[8]
For example, Company A files a permanent labor certification request on behalf of a beneficiary as a
scientist with an advanced degree on January 10, 2020. DOL  issues the certification on March 20,
2020. Company A later files, and USCIS approves, a relating immigrant visa petition under the
employment-based 2nd preference (EB-2) category . On July 15, 2020, the beneficiary files a second
petition on his or her own behalf as an extraordinary scientist under the employment-based 1st
preference (EB-1) category , which USCIS approves. The beneficiary is entitled to use the January 10,
2020 priority date to apply for adjustment under either the EB-1 or the EB-2 classification.[9]
B. Evidence
1. Job Offers
In most cases, the beneficiary of a petition must have a bona fide job of fer from a petitioner in the
United States. As evidence of the job of fer, most petitioners who file EB-2 and employment-based 3rd
preference (EB-3) petitions must first obtain an approved individual permanent labor certification from
DOL.
In other cases, where the beneficiary is eligible for Schedule A blanket permanent labor certification,
the petitioner submits unapproved permanent labor certification applications to USCIS with the
petition. In relatively few cases, such as those involving beneficiaries seeking EB-1 classification,[10]
as well as those seeking EB-2 classification who also qualify for a national interest waiver ,[11] an
individual permanent labor certification from DOL  is not required.
2. Licensure
Neither the statute nor the regulations require that the beneficiary of a petition be able to engage in the
occupation immediately . There are often licensing and other additional requirements that a person8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1140/2618