RequestPermitted Modifications to
OathTestimony or Evidence
Waiver of the OathRequirement to take the Oath of
Allegiance may be waivedEvaluation by medical professional
stating inability to understand or
communicate the meaning of the oath
due to a physical or developmental
disability or mental impairment.
A. Modified Oath for Religious or Conscientious Objections
1. General Modifications to the Oath
An applicant may request a modified oath that does not contain one or both of the following clauses:
To bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law; and
To perform noncombatant service in the U.S. armed forces when required by the law .[1]
In order to modify the oath, the applicant must demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that he
or she is unwilling or unable to af firm to these sections of the oath based on his or her religious
training and belief, which may include a deeply held moral or ethical code.[2]
There is no exemption from the clause “to perform work of national importance under civilian direction
when required by the law .”[3]
2. Qualifying for Modification to the Oath
Three-Part T est
In order for an applicant to qualify for a modification based on his or her “religious training and belief,”
the applicant must satisfy a three-part test. An applicant must establish that:
He or she is opposed to bearing arms in the U.S. armed forces or opposed to any type of service
in the U.S. armed forces;
The objection is grounded in his or her religious principles, to include other belief systems similar
to traditional religion or a deeply held moral or ethical code; and
His or her beliefs are sincere, meaningful, and deeply held.[4]
The applicant is not eligible for a modified oath when he or she is opposed to a specific war . Religious
training or belief does not include essentially political, sociological, or philosophical views. An applicant
whose objection to war is based upon opinions or beliefs about public policy and the practicality or
desirability of combat, or whose beliefs are not deeply held, does not qualify for the modification of the
oath. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2572/2618