a principal K nonimmigrant.
Any applicant for adjustment of status based on a K nonimmigrant visa must submit a Form I-864 at
the time of adjustment of status. Termination of the marriage between the K-1 beneficiary and the
petitioner does not end the K-1 nonimmigrant’ s eligibility for adjustment.[23]
A former spouse can still be the sponsor who submits the Form I-864 for a K-1 and a K-2
nonimmigrant to adjust status. However , if the former spouse does not submit the Form I-864, or
timely withdraws one already submitted, the K-1 and K-2 nonimmigrants are inadmissible based on
the public charge ground unless an exception applies.[24]
4. Accompanying Spouse or Child
A spouse or child is considered to be accompanying a principal immigrant if:
The spouse or child applies for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status at the same time as the
principal immigrant; or
The spouse or child applies for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status within 6 months after
the date the principal immigrant acquires LPR status.
If the principal applicant is required to have a Form I-864, then any accompanying spouse or child
must also be included on that af fidavit of support. To meet the requirement, the accompanying spouse
or child must submit a photocopy of the principal applicant’ s Form I-864. A photocopy of the principal’ s
supporting documentation,[25] however , is not required.
5. Following-to-Join Spouse or Child
When a spouse or a child of a principal applicant applies for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status
6 months or more after the principal immigrant, the spouse or child is considered to be following-to-join
the principal.
If the principal applicant is required to have a Form I-864, then the following-to-join spouse or child
must also have a Form I-864. Each following-to-join spouse or child requires a Form I-864,
independent of the principal applicant’ s Form I-864, at the time of adjustment of status or consular
processing.[26]
6. T and U Nonimmigrants, V AWA Self-Petitioners, and Certain “Qualified Aliens” Subject to
Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A  of the INA  Requirements
In general, INA 212(a)(4)(E)  provides that the following provisions do not apply to “qualified alien”
victims:
Public charge inadmissibility , in general;[27]
Minimum factors to be considered in the public charge inadmissibility determination;[28] and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1996/2618