The abuser ’s Report of Birth Abroad of a Citizen of the United States (Department of State Form
FS-240).[20]
Other examples of evidence to establish the U.S. citizenship of the abuser may include a receipt or
approval notice of a Petition for Alien Relative ( Form I-130 ) filed by the abuser for an immediate
relative category , the abuser ’s A-Number with evidence of naturalization, or information on a marriage
license or certificate showing the abuser ’s birth in the United States.
Primary evidence to demonstrate the abuser ’s LPR status is a copy of the abuser ’s Permanent
Resident Card (Form I-551) or other proof from the DHS reflecting LPR status.[21] Other examples of
evidence to establish the abuser ’s LPR status include but are not limited to:
A copy of the pages of the abuser ’s passport with visas and entry stamps showing name and
immigration status; or
The abuser's A-Number with verification of status.
If self-petitioners are unable to provide documentary evidence of the abuser ’s U.S. citizenship or LPR
status, they should provide some identifying information for the abusive U.S. citizen or LPR, such as a
name, place of birth, country of birth, date of birth, or Social Security number . USCIS uses this
information to conduct a search of DHS records to attempt to verify the abuser ’s citizenship or
immigration status.[22] If USCIS is unable to identify a record as relating to the abuser or the record
does not establish the abuser's citizenship or LPR status, the of ficer should adjudicate the self-petition
based on the information submitted by the self-petitioner .[23]
An abused spouse or child of a U.S. national may also be eligible for V AWA benefits, as a U.S.
national is accorded the same rights as an LPR.[24] USCIS treats a self-petitioning spouse or child of
a U.S. national as a self-petitioning spouse or child of an LPR when adjudicating the self-petition.
2. Self-Petitioning Spouse
Generally , to establish a qualifying relationship, self-petitioning spouses must have a legally valid
marriage to their abusive U.S. citizen or LPR spouse at the time the self-petition is filed.[25] In certain
circumstances, however , self-petitioning spouses may continue to be eligible for V AWA benefits if the
marriage was terminated due to divorce or death prior to filing the self-petition.[26] If self-petitioning
spouses divorce their abusive U.S. citizen or LPR spouse after the self-petition is filed, it does not
adversely impact approving a pending self-petition or the validity of an approved self-petition.[27]
USCIS generally considers a marriage as legally valid according to the laws of the place where the
marriage was celebrated.[28] However , if a marriage is valid in the country where celebrated but
considered contrary to U.S. public policy , the marriage is not recognized as valid for immigration
purposes.[29] For example, incestuous and plural marriages generally are considered contrary to U.S.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 754/2618