fide organization af filiated with the religious denomination in the United States if all of the following
criteria are met: 
The work to be performed in the organization is: solely as a minister for a religious denomination,
in a religious vocation in a professional or nonprofessional capacity , or in a religious occupation
either in a professional or nonprofessional capacity; 
 The religious worker has been a member of a religious denomination that has a bona fide
nonprofit religious organization in the United States for at least 2 years immediately preceding
the filing of the petition for classification as a religious worker; and 
 The religious worker must have been working continuously in one of the positions described
above either abroad or in the United States[15] for at least 2 years immediately preceding the
filing of the petition. Only employment after 14 years of age qualifies under this requirement.[16]
The religious organization seeking to employ the alien as a special immigrant religious worker may
file Form I-360  with USCIS on behalf of the alien. Alternatively , the alien may file the Form I-360  as a
self-petitioner .[17] The petition must include evidence to prove the above eligibility criteria.[18] USCIS
may conduct an on-site inspection of all petitioning organizations. If USCIS conducts a pre-approval
inspection, satisfactory completion of the inspection is a condition of approval of any petition.
USCIS may also randomly inspect a petitioner ’s site after adjudication. 
Verifying the Underlying Basis to Adjust Status and Determining Ongoing Eligibility[19]
The religious worker petition should already be adjudicated and approved when the of ficer adjudicates
the adjustment application. USCIS does not re-adjudicate the religious worker petition at the time of
the adjudication of the adjustment application. However , the of ficer should ensure that the applicant
remains classified as a religious worker and thus is eligible to adjust as a religious worker . As a result,
there may be instances when USCIS may require the applicant to provide additional evidence to show
he or she continues to be classified as a religious worker . In other words, the of ficer must verify the
status of any underlying immigrant petition that forms the basis for adjustment.
2. Bars to Adjustment
Unless exempt, religious workers and their derivatives are ineligible for adjustment of status if any of
the bars to adjustment of status apply .[20] Religious workers and their derivatives may be exempt
under INA 245(k)  from some of the bars to adjustment.[21] To qualify for an exemption, the
applicant must not have accrued more than 180 days of certain immigration violations since his or her
last lawful admission. If the applicant does not qualify for the exemption, then the applicant remains
subject to the adjustment bars.[22]
3. Admissibility and W aiver Requirements8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1654/2618