Change in Marital Status
If the significant change that occurs is a change in marital status, the P AP must submit a new
suitability application with an updated home study . If the P AP is married, the spouse must also sign the
new form. If the change in marital status takes place before USCIS approves the suitability application
or combination filing, there is no fee. However , if the change in marital status takes place after USCIS
has approved the suitability application, combination filing, or request, the P AP must submit a new
version of the appropriate form or request with any appropriate fee.[23]
Household Composition
The P AP must submit an updated home study if there is any change in the number or identity of
children or AMHs in the P AP’s household.
Financial Resources
USCIS generally only considers a change in financial resources to be a significant change if there is
significant decrease in the P AP’s financial resources that causes reasonable concern about the P AP’s
financial suitability . This includes, but is not limited to:
Any decrease or loss of assets that impacts the P AP’s financial suitability or puts the P AP’s
income below the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’  (HHS) poverty guidelines; or
A significant increase in debts or expenses that would impact the P AP’s financial suitability or put
the family below the HHS poverty guidelines.[24]
Pregnancy
USCIS generally does not consider pregnancy a significant change unless it significantly impacts the
household member ’s physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral health or significantly decreases the
PAP’s financial resources.
Once the household member gives birth, if the child is part of the household, USCIS considers this a
change in household composition that counts as a significant change.
Miscarriage
USCIS generally does not consider miscarriage a significant change unless it significantly impacts the
household member ’s physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral health or significantly decreases the
PAP’s financial resources.
Serious Health Conditions
USCIS considers a household member ’s development of a serious health condition to be a significant
change. Serious health conditions include, but are not limited to, heart attacks, heart conditions8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 928/2618