The law of the jurisdiction where the order was issued expressly permits an adoption decree to
be dated retroactively; and
The court’ s order grants the adoption with an ef fective date before the adoptee beneficiary’ s 16th
birthday (or 18th birthday if the sibling exception applies).[16]
Amended Orders
An order entered to correct an error in an order that actually was entered before the adoptee
beneficiary’ s 16th birthday (or 18th birthday if the sibling exception applies) may also establish
eligibility . For example, if a court intended to enter an adoption order but mistakenly entered a
guardianship order , an amended order correcting the earlier order would support approval of the
petition.[17] In these circumstances, the petitioner should submit both the original order and the later
order correcting the original order .
2. Validity of the Relationship
Bona fide Adoption
USCIS assesses whether the adoptive relationship is bona fide. USCIS evaluates the petition to
determine if the intent of the adoption was to form a genuine parent-child relationship and not solely
for immigration purposes.[18]
Legal Custody and Joint Residence
In order to establish the validity of the relationship, the petitioner must establish that the adoptee
beneficiary has been in the legal custody of and jointly resided[19] with the adoptive parent(s) for at
least 2 years.[20] The legal custody and joint residence requirement may be met by custody and
residence before or after the final adoption, but any pre-adoption custody must be based on a formal
grant of custody from a court or authorized governmental entity according to the law of the country
where it was obtained.
The 2-year time period does not need to be continuous and multiple periods of time can be added
together to accrue the 2 years. The legal custody and joint residence requirements are reviewed
independently . If the adoptive parents are a married couple who jointly adopted, the 2 years of legal
custody and joint residence cannot be split between the parents. However , only one adoptive parent
needs to establish 2 years of legal custody and joint residence. The two years the child was in the
legal custody of the adoptive parent do not have to be the same two years the child jointly resided with
the adoptive parent.
In order to establish that the adoptee beneficiary jointly resided with the adoptive parent(s) in a familial
relationship, the petitioner must establish that the adoptive parent(s) exercised parental control over
the adoptee beneficiary .[21] Specifically , if an adopted child continues to reside in the same household
as the birth parent(s) during the period in which the adoptive parent petitioner seeks to establish8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1019/2618