2. Sex
Certain USCIS applications, petitions, and requests require a benefit requestor to indicate his or her
sex. In these cases, a benefit requestor must provide his or her biological sex as generally evidenced
on his or her birth certificate issued at the time of birth or issued closest to the time of birth. Sex is not
“gender identity .”
Many immigration benefits require sex (male (M) or female (F)) and not gender , two examples of
which are INA  338 that requires the bearer ’s “sex” on the Certificate of Naturalization, and a host of
immigration benefits that rely on the binary legal term “sons or daughters” for the allocation of
immigrant visas, such as family-sponsored visas under INA  203(a), alien witness or informant (S)
visas under INA  101(a)(15)(S), and employment-based investor (EB-5) visas under INA  203(b)(5).[12] 
USCIS only recognizes the two biological sexes: male (M) or female (F). If there is a discrepancy
between the requestor ’s selection and the birth certificate issued at the time of birth or issued closest
to the time of birth, USCIS considers the sex indicated on the requestor ’s birth certificate to be
controlling, provided the birth certificate issued at the time of birth or issued closest to the time of birth
indicates a male or female sex. Where a birth certificate issued at the time of birth or issued closest to
the time of birth indicates a sex other than male or female, USCIS may base the determination of sex
on secondary evidence in the record, where available.[13]
USCIS does not deny immigration benefits solely based on a failure to properly indicate the benefit
requestor ’s sex. However , USCIS must indicate the benefit requestor ’s sex when issuing certain
documents,[14] and USCIS does not issue a document indicating a sex that is inconsistent with the
benefit requestor ’s biological sex as generally evidenced on a birth certificate issued at the time of
birth or issued closest to the time of birth (provided the birth certificate indicates a male or female sex).
[15] Therefore, if a benefit requestor does not indicate their sex or indicates a sex dif ferent from the
sex on his or her birth certificate issued at the time of birth or issued closest to the time of birth, it may
cause delays in adjudication.
Footnotes
[^ 1] There may be instances in which a birth certificate is unobtainable because of country conditions
or personal circumstances. In these instances, a requestor may submit secondary evidence or
affidavits to establish the requestor ’s identity . Any af fidavit should explain the reasons primary
evidence is unavailable. For more information, see the Department of State (DOS) Reciprocity Tables
for identity documents that cannot be obtained in particular countries and during specific time periods.
Asylum applicants may be able to establish their identity , including their full legal name, with testimony
alone.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 268/2618