Interpretation of Matter of Dial Auto Repair Shop, Inc.
The legacy Immigration and Naturalization Service (legacy INS) Commissioner in Matter of Dial Auto
Repair Shop, Inc. (PDF) , examined a petitioner (the successor) who had taken over some functions of
the employer who filed the permanent labor certification (the predecessor).[5] The Commissioner
found that the petitioner failed to adequately describe how it had acquired its predecessor , Elvira Auto
Body’ s, business. As a result, Dial Auto Repair Shop failed to meet its burden and was not eligible to
claim continued validity of the original permanent labor certification.
The Commissioner stated that if Dial Auto Repair Shop’ s “claim of having assumed all of Elvira Auto’ s
rights, duties, obligations, etc., is found to be untrue, then grounds would exist for invalidation of the
labor certification . . . . Conversely , if the claim is found to be true, and it is determined that an actual
successorship exists, the petition could be approved if eligibility is otherwise shown . . . .” [6] Notably ,
the Commissioner did not state that a valid successor relationship could only be established through
the assumption of all the predecessor entity’ s rights, duties, and obligations.
The definition of a successor is “someone who succeeds to the of fice, rights, responsibilities, or place
of another; one who replaces or follows a predecessor .”[7] Similarly , the term “successor” with
reference to corporations is defined as “a corporation that, through amalgamation, consolidation, or
other assumption of interests, is vested with the rights and duties of an earlier corporation.”[8]
These definitions are consistent with the determinations made in Matter of Dial Auto Repair Shop, Inc. ,
which highlight three factors that should be considered when determining if a previously approved or
pending permanent labor certification remains valid for successor-in-interest petition adjudications.
F. Factors for Successorship Determinations
The three successor-in-interest factors are:
The job opportunity of fered by the successor must be the same as the job opportunity originally
offered on the permanent labor certification;
The successor bears the burden of proof to establish all elements of eligibility as of the priority
date, including the provision of required evidence from the predecessor entity , such as evidence
of the predecessor ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage; and
For a valid successor-in-interest relationship to exist between the successor and the
predecessor that filed the permanent labor certification, the petition must fully describe and
document the transfer and assumption of the ownership of the predecessor by the successor .
If a business can establish these three factors, an of ficer may find a valid successor-in-interest
relationship even in situations where a successor does not wholly assume a predecessor entity’ s
rights, duties, and obligations.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1095/2618