Financial hardship to the principal applicant may rise to the level of compelling circumstances when
coupled with circumstances beyond those typically associated with job loss. Job loss may be suf ficient
to establish financial hardship depending on the individual circumstances. For example, the loss of
health insurance may rise to this level for a principal applicant or their dependents facing extended
illness or requiring extensive medical treatment.
Applicants should provide an explanation supported by evidence such as financial records and bona
fide cost estimates demonstrating the inherent financial hardship facing the applicant if made to depart
the United States, coupled with specialty needs of the applicant or family members. Evidence in this
example could also include the applicant’ s priority date, as well as other factors such as school or
higher education enrollment records, mortgage records, long-term lease records, or documentation
regarding home country conditions, as applicable.
Significant Disruption to the Employer
Compelling circumstances need not involve termination of the principal applicant. A principal applicant
who is unexpectedly unable to timely extend or change status to continue employment with the
employer and has no other basis to continue that employment may be eligible for a compelling
circumstances-based EAD if the principal applicant's departure would cause the employer substantial
disruption.
Applicants should provide an explanation supported by evidence from their employer that
demonstrates that, due to the principal applicant’ s knowledge or experience, their loss would
negatively impact projects and result in significant monetary loss or other disruption to the employer .
Approval of an application for employment authorization based on compelling circumstances requires
that the principal applicant is facing compelling circumstances and that they are unable to continue
employment with the petitioning employer , and that due to the compelling circumstances, the result to
the applicant is harm beyond that which is normally associated with job loss.
For example, reaching the maximum statutory or regulatory period of allowed nonimmigrant status
does not, without compounding factors, constitute compelling circumstances. An of ficer may consider
this factor in determining whether the applicant merits a favorable exercise of discretion.[7]
Likewise, USCIS generally does not consider unemployment or job loss, in and of itself, to be a
compelling circumstance unless the principal applicant can show additional circumstances that
compound the hardship ordinarily associated with job loss.
As an example, a principal applicant with an approved immigrant visa petition in an oversubscribed
visa category or chargeability area who has lived in the United States for a considerable period of
time, and has school-aged children and a mortgage, may face compelling circumstances if, due to job
loss, the family may otherwise be forced to sell their home for a loss, pull the children out of school,
and relocate to their home country . Note that not all of these elements (lengthy time in the United8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2223/2618