Details of any mitigating circumstances; and
A statement whether the information was disclosed by the P AP, AMH, or child (as age
appropriate) or if it was discovered by the home study preparer .
Impact on Suitability and Rehabilitation Assessment
The home study must contain an evaluation of suitability in light of any household member ’s criminal
history or history of abuse or violence as an of fender .[45] This must include a discussion of any
rehabilitation that demonstrates suitability , including:[46]
An evaluation of the seriousness of any relevant arrest(s), conviction(s), and history of abuse;
The number of such incidents;
The length of time since the last incident;
The of fender ’s acceptance of responsibility for the of fender ’s conduct; and
Any counseling or rehabilitation programs the person has successfully completed or a written
opinion by an appropriate licensed professional.
3. Required Supporting Documentation
The P AP must submit the following to the home study preparer for consideration in the preparer ’s
assessment:[47]
A statement disclosing and describing any history of abuse, violence, or criminal history as an
offender , including mitigating circumstances, signed under penalty of perjury , by the household
member that committed the abuse, violence, or criminal activity; and
A certified copy of the documentation showing the final disposition of each incident which
resulted in arrest, indictment, conviction, or any other judicial or administrative action.
The P AP must also attach this documentation to the home study for USCIS’  review .
J. Prior Home Studies
1. Required Assessment
The home study preparer must evaluate the relevance of any prior home studies on suitability .[48] The
home study preparer must ask each P AP and all AMH whether the person previously underwent any
sort of home study assessment for any form of custodial care (domestic or intercountry), whether or
not it was completed, and the outcome. If so, the home study preparer must review any prior home
study reports as part of their assessment, if the report is available.
2. Required Home Study Content
The home study must:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 913/2618