Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization
Part A - Citizenship and Naturalization Policies and Procedures
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
The United States has a long history of welcoming immigrants from all parts of the world. The United
States values the contributions of immigrants who continue to enrich this country and preserve its
legacy as a land of freedom and opportunity . USCIS is proud of its role in maintaining our country’ s
tradition as a nation of immigrants and will administer immigration and naturalization benefits with
integrity .
U.S. citizenship is a unique bond that unites people around civic ideals and a belief in the rights and
freedoms guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution. The promise of citizenship is grounded in the
fundamental value that all persons are created equal and serves as a unifying identity to allow persons
of all backgrounds, whether native or foreign-born, to have an equal stake in the future of the United
States.
This volume of the USCIS Policy Manual explains the laws and policies that govern U.S. citizenship
and naturalization. 
USCIS administers citizenship and naturalization law and policy by:
Providing accurate and useful information to citizenship and naturalization applicants;
Promoting an awareness and understanding of citizenship; and
Adjudicating citizenship and naturalization applications in a consistent and accurate manner .
Accordingly , USCIS reviews benefit request for citizenship and naturalization to determine whether: 
Foreign-born children of U.S. citizens by birth or naturalization meet the eligibility requirements
before recognizing their acquisition or derivation of U.S. citizenship. 
Persons applying for naturalization based on their time as lawful permanent residents meet the
eligibility requirements to become U.S. citizens.
Persons applying for naturalization based on their marriage to a U.S. citizen meet the eligibility
requirements for naturalization through the provisions for spouses of U.S. citizens.
Members of the U.S. armed forces and their families are eligible for naturalization and ensure
that qualified applicants are naturalized expeditiously through the military provisions.
Persons working abroad for certain entities, to include the U.S. Government, meet the eligibility
requirements for certain exceptions to the general naturalization requirements. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2258/2618