[^ 8] For information on expedite requests, see Chapter 5, Expedite Requests [ 1 USCIS-PM A.5].
[^ 9] See Chapter 6, Disability Accommodation Requests [ 1 USCIS-PM A.6].
Chapter 5 - Expedite Requests
Immigration benefit requestors or their authorized representative may request that USCIS expedite the
adjudication of their application, petition, request, appeal, or motion that is under USCIS jurisdiction.
[1] USCIS considers all expedite requests on a case-by-case basis in the exercise of discretion and
generally requires documentation to support such requests. The decision to expedite is within the sole
discretion of USCIS.
As expediting an application, petition, request, appeal, or motion generally means that USCIS would
adjudicate the requestor's benefit ahead of others who filed earlier , USCIS carefully weighs the
urgency and merit of each expedite request.
A. Expedite Criteria or Circumstances
USCIS may expedite adjudication of an application, petition, request, appeal, or motion at its
discretion. USCIS considers the totality of the circumstances and evidence submitted in support of an
expedite request.
Relevant criteria or circumstances that may be considered in determining whether to grant an expedite
request include, but are not limited to, the following:
Severe financial loss to a company or person, provided that the need for urgent action is not the
result of the petitioner ’s or applicant’ s failure to timely file the benefit request or to timely respond
to any requests for evidence.[2]
Emergencies or urgent humanitarian situations.
Nonprofit organization (as designated by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)) whose request is
in furtherance of the cultural or social interests of the United States.
Government interests, including cases identified by the government as urgent because they
involve the public interest, public safety , national interest, or national security interests.
Clear USCIS error .
1. Severe Financial Loss as a Basis for Expedited T reatment
A company can demonstrate that it would suf fer a severe financial loss if it is at risk of failing, losing a
critical contract, or required to lay of f other employees. For example, a medical of fice may suf fer
severe financial loss if a gap in a doctor ’s employment authorization would require the medical
practice to lay of f its medical assistants.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 164/2618