Factors Considerations
civil proceedings; or to obtain court orders regarding protection, child
support, maintenance, child custody , or visitation.
Fear of persecution or societal discrimination.
Prior grant of U nonimmigrant status.
Existence of laws and social practices in the country of relocation
that would punish the qualifying relative because he or she has been
in the United States or is perceived to have W estern values.
Access or lack of access to social institutions and structures (of ficial
and unof ficial) for support, guidance, or protection.
Social ostracism or stigma based on characteristics such as sex,
sexual orientation, religion, race, national origin, ethnicity ,
citizenship, age, political opinion, marital status, or disability .[6]
Qualifying relative’ s community ties in the United States and in the
country of relocation.
Extent to which the qualifying relative has assimilated into U.S.
culture, including language, skills, and acculturation.
Extent to which the qualifying relative would have dif ficulty
integrating into the country of relocation, including understanding
and adopting social norms and established customs, including
ethical or moral codes.
Difficulty and expense of travel/communication to maintain ties
between qualifying relative and applicant, if the qualifying relative
does not relocate.
Qualifying relative’ s present inability to communicate in the language
of the country of relocation, as well as the time and dif ficulty that
learning that language would entail.
Availability and quality of educational opportunities for qualifying
relative (and children, if any) in the country of relocation.
Availability and quality of job training, including technical or
vocational opportunities, for qualifying relative (and children, if any)
in the country of relocation.
Economic Impact
Economic impact of applicant’ s departure on the qualifying relative,
including the applicant’ s or qualifying relative’ s ability to obtain
employment in the country of relocation.
Economic impact resulting from the sale of a home, business, or
other asset.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2126/2618