Date Event
August 1, 2008An alien is admitted as a nonimmigrant student authorized to attend a
university full-time.
August 15, 2009After a year of study , the nonimmigrant transfers to another
university through appropriate procedures, including updating the
Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status (Form I-20
A-B). The Designated School Of ficial (DSO) at the first university fails to
properly update the Student and Exchange V isitor Information System
(SEVIS), which now shows a large gap in the student’ s attendance
between the first and second universities.
October 1, 2010During a benefit request review , a USCIS of ficer notices the potential
violation of status and issues a Request for Evidence to the nonimmigrant
student. In response, the nonimmigrant student submits a letter from the
DSO at the first university explaining the school had failed to timely record
the transfer in SEVIS. The student provides copies of her transcripts,
showing full-time attendance as explained in the DSO’ s letter .
In this example, the exception applies because the DSO failed to update SEVIS with the transfer
information, and the failure was beyond the alien’ s control. Conversely , the exception would not apply
if the nonimmigrant student had withdrawn from school without DSO permission. Instead, such action
would have resulted in a failure to maintain nonimmigrant student status.
Technical V iolation Resulting from Inaction of USCIS[33]
One example of the phrase “a technical violation resulting from the inaction of USCIS” is where an
applicant ceases to have a lawful status because USCIS failed to adjudicate a properly and timely filed
request to extend or change nonimmigrant status. 
Often an of ficer can verify a technical violation resulting from USCIS inaction or oversight through
review of USCIS systems and the Record of Proceeding. In other instances, an adjustment applicant
who claims a technical violation of status based on USCIS’  failure to adjudicate a pending application
must prove that:
The applicant properly filed an application to extend or change nonimmigrant status prior to the
expiration date of his or her nonimmigrant status; 
The applicant was a bona fide nonimmigrant at the time of filing his or her application to extend
or change nonimmigrant status, which includes establishing intent consistent with the terms and
conditions of the nonimmigrant status sought; 
The applicant filed an application to extend or change nonimmigrant status that was meritorious
in fact, not frivolous or fraudulent, or otherwise designed to delay removal or departure from
the United States; 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1569/2618