A domestic adoption or legal custody of a child in the child’ s country of origin alone does not convey
U.S. immigration status to the child or enable the child to travel to the United States. If a U.S. citizen[2]
PAP residing outside of the United States wishes to secure lawful U.S. immigration status for the
PAP’s adopted child, the P AP generally may use one of the U.S. immigration processes (Hague
Adoption Convention, orphan, or family-based).
The following table explains which U.S. immigration process a P AP who resides outside of the United
States generally may pursue,[3] based on whether the child resides in a country that is a party to the
Hague Adoption Convention.
Immigration Options for Adopted Children of U.S. Citizens Residing Outside the United States
If child resides
in…U.S. immigration processes[4] generally available
Non-Hague
countryOrphan process (using the Application for Advance Processing of an
Orphan Petition ( Form I-600A ) or Petition to Classify Orphan as an
Immediate Relative ( Form I-600 )); or
Family-based petition process (using Petition for Alien Relative ( Form I-
130))
Hague Adoption
Convention
countryHague Adoption Convention process (using the Application for
Determination of Suitability to Adopt a Child from a Convention Country
(Form I-800A ) or Petition to Classify Convention Adoptee as an
Immediate Relative ( Form I-800 )); or
Family-based petition process ( Form I-130 ) if the P AP can establish that
the Hague Adoption Convention does not apply
This table does not address the process to obtain U.S. citizenship for the child.[5]
Additional Considerations for Children from a Hague Adoption Convention Country
Generally , a U.S. citizen who adopts a child from a Hague Adoption Convention country must use the
Hague Adoption Convention process.[6] The U.S. Hague Adoption Convention process is generally
available to any U.S. citizen residing outside the United States.[7]
The Hague Adoption Convention requires a determination of the U.S. citizen P AP’s habitual residence.
If the P AP resides in a Hague Adoption Convention country , the Central Authority of the P AP’s country
of residence generally determines whether it considers the P AP to be habitually resident in that
country for the purpose of adoption under the Hague Adoption Convention process.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 884/2618