An applicant’ s overseas medical examination report completed by a panel physician should already be
in the applicant’ s A-file. If it is not in the A-file, the of ficer should request the medical examination
report through a Request for Evidence (RFE).
If the applicant was granted a change of status to V in the United States,[29] the medical examination
report completed by the civil surgeon should be in the A-file created at the time that the change of
status was initially granted. 
5. Refugees Applying for Adjustment[30]
By regulation, refugees applying for adjustment of status generally do not need to repeat the entire
medical examination if the applicant was already examined by a panel physician for purposes of
admission to the United States.[31] Refugees must undergo an additional medical examination only if
the original examination by the panel physician revealed a Class A medical condition.
Family members granted refugee status in the United States must submit to a medical examination at
the time they seek to adjust their status. 
All refugees must comply with the vaccination requirements at the time of adjustment of status by
submitting the relevant parts of the Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination
Record ( Form I-693 ) completed by a designated civil surgeon. A prior vaccination assessment
performed by the panel physician cannot be used for purposes of the adjustment of status application.
[32]
USCIS granted a blanket civil surgeon designation to state and local health department physicians for
the limited purpose of completing the vaccination record for refugees applying for adjustment of
status. 
6. Asylees Applying for Adjustment
All asylees are required to undergo an immigration medical exam, including vaccination assessment,
at time of adjustment.[33]
However , according to USCIS policy developed in consultation with the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, an asylee dependent who had a medical examination conducted overseas is not
required to undergo a new medical exam when applying for adjustment of status if:
The results of the overseas medical examination are contained in the A-file and no Class A
condition was reported;
The asylee has applied for adjustment of status within one year of eligibility to file; and
No evidence in the A-file or testimony given at the interview suggests that the asylee has
acquired a Class A condition after his or her entry into the United States.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1895/2618