To be considered a child of a U.S. citizen mother , the child must be:
The genetic child of a U.S. citizen mother who is recognized as the legal parent;[7]
The adopted (including an orphan or Hague Convention adoptee) child of a U.S. citizen mother;
[8]
The child of a non-genetic gestational U.S. citizen mother (woman who carried and gave birth to
the child) who is recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal parent;[9] or
The child of a U.S. citizen mother who is married to the child’ s genetic or gestational parent at
the time of the child’ s birth (even if no genetic or gestational relationship exists with the U.S.
citizen mother) if both parents are recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal
parents.
Definition of Child of a U.S. Citizen Father
To be considered a child of a U.S. citizen father , the child must be:
The legitimated[10] child of a U.S. citizen father who is recognized as the legal parent;[11]
The adopted (including an orphan or Hague Convention adoptee) child of a U.S. citizen father;
[12]
The child of a U.S. citizen father who is married to the child’ s genetic or gestational parent at the
time of the child’ s birth (even if no genetic or gestational relationship exists with the U.S. citizen
father) if both parents are recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal parents; or
If the child was born out of wedlock and claiming U.S. citizenship at birth, then the evidence
must demonstrate that the requirements under INA  309 are met.[13]
For citizenship purposes, a person is considered a “parent,” “mother ,” or “father ,” where their child
satisfies one of the definitions of child provided above.
The term “genetic child” refers to a child who shares genetic material with the parent, and “gestational
parent” is the woman who carries and gives birth to the child. A genetic parent, as well as a non-
genetic gestational parent who is recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal parent, is
included within the phrase “natural” parent as referenced in the INA.[14]
In general, absent other evidence to the contrary , USCIS considers a child’ s birth certificate as
recorded by a proper authority as primary and suf ficient evidence to determine a child’ s genetic or
gestational relationship to the parent (or parents). The parental relationship may also be established
under the paternity laws of the child or the father ’s residence, or if this evidence is not available, it
could be established by DNA  testing. USCIS cannot require DNA  test results to verify the claimed
biological relationship but may suggest that the applicant voluntarily submit DNA  test results.
In addition to meeting the definition of a child (as described above), the child must also meet the
particular requirements of the specific citizenship or naturalization provision, which may include8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2459/2618