The statutorily limited number of DVs may also be exhausted before September 30, the last day of the
fiscal year , as a whole or for specific regions or countries. Therefore, USCIS encourages adjustment
applicants to file as soon as they are eligible to file based on the DOS V isa Bulletin.[5]
Example
An alien living in the United States enters the DV Program’ s online registration on October 2, 2018.
The alien checks DOS’ s Electronic Diversity V isa Program  webpage on May 1, 2019, and finds out
they have been selected for a DV for fiscal year 2020. On August 1, 2020, the selectee properly files
an adjustment application based on being a DV selectee with a current rank number according to the
DOS V isa Bulletin. On August 15, 2020, the of ficer adjudicating the application determines some
required evidence is missing and sends a Request for Evidence to the adjustment applicant. The
adjustment applicant submits the requested evidence on October 1, 2020.
Even if the adjustment applicant meets all other eligibility criteria to adjust status, USCIS cannot
approve the adjustment application because it is past the September 30 fiscal year deadline and there
are no more DV numbers for DOS to allocate.[6]
Availability of V isa at T ime of Final Adjudication
A visa must be immediately available at the time the DV Program selectee files the adjustment
application with USCIS and at the time of final adjudication of the application.[7] Therefore, before
approving a DV adjustment application, the of ficer should consult the DOS V isa Bulletin to determine
if:
The applicant filed the DV -based adjustment application at the appropriate time (based on the
current visa availability chart at the time of filing or the advance notification chart); and
A visa number is immediately available at the time of final adjudication and approval.
C. Interview
All adjustment of status applicants must be interviewed by a USCIS of ficer unless USCIS determines
that the interview is unnecessary .[8] If an interview is necessary , USCIS schedules the applicant for an
in-person interview at the appropriate field of fice with jurisdiction.
D. Decision
1. Approval
The of ficer must determine that the applicant meets all the eligibility requirements and merits the
favorable exercise of discretion before approving the application to adjust status based on a DV .[9] If
the adjustment application is otherwise approvable, the of ficer must determine if a visa is immediately8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1755/2618