In 1994, Congress enacted legislation providing an exception to the English and civics requirements
for aliens filing for naturalization who cannot meet the requirements[2] because of a physical or
developmental disability or mental impairment.[3]
The English and civics requirements do not apply to aliens filing for naturalization who are unable to
comply due to a “medically determinable” physical or developmental disability or mental impairment[4]
that has lasted, or is expected to last, at least 12 months. The regulations define medically
determinable as an impairment that results from abnormalities which can be shown by medically
acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques.[5]
The alien must demonstrate that he or she has a disability or impairment that af fects functioning such
that the alien is unable to meet the English and civics requirements for naturalization, even with
reasonable accommodations.
A licensed medical professional[6] must complete a Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions
(Form N-648 ) and certify , under penalty of perjury , that the alien’ s disability or impairment prevents the
alien from meeting the English requirement, the civics requirement, or both requirements.
C. Submission of Form N-648
1. Form N-648 Submitted Concurrently with Form N-400
An alien seeking an exception to the English or civics requirements or both must submit an initial Form
N-648  as an attachment to the Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 ).[7] However , USCIS may
accept an initial Form N-648 submitted after filing Form N-400, or the submission of multiple Forms N-
648, in limited circumstances as set forth below . Aliens should use the form edition of the Form N-648
listed on the form webpage .
2. Late Submissions
A late submission occurs when an alien submits Form N-648 for the first time after filing Form N-400
(including at the interview). However , USCIS may accept late submissions of Form N-648 if the alien
demonstrates extenuating circumstances. Aliens may provide supporting evidence and explain the
extenuating circumstances that prevented the timely submission of Form N-648 in writing (submitted
before or during the interview) or verbally at the interview .
For example, if an alien develops a disability or impairment after filing Form N-400 and provides
evidence to support this claim, this change in his or her medical condition would ordinarily constitute
extenuating circumstances that justify submitting Form N-648 late. Similarly , if an alien had a medical
condition before filing, but it subsequently worsened and the alien is then unable to meet the
educational requirement, the alien may be able to establish extenuating circumstances for the late8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2373/2618