If the emergency or unforeseen circumstance results in the closure of a public-facing facility such as a
field of fice, asylum of fice, or application support center , or in the impairment or unavailability of USCIS
information technology systems, the responsible of ficial ensures the closure is announced on the
USCIS website.[2] USCIS also uses USCIS social media channels to inform the public, as appropriate.
Additionally , when feasible, USCIS attempts to directly contact individuals with appointments
scheduled at the closed facility , as well as their attorneys or representatives of record, to inform them
of the closure and to reschedule their appointments. Local USCIS staf f also contact the public af fairs
specialist with responsibility for the impacted facility to notify their media contacts of the closure.
When the field of fice is accessible and an employee is able to go the field of fice safely , USCIS places
signage informing the public of the closure at all entrances to the impacted facility and adds outgoing
messages regarding the closure to any public telephone numbers or email addresses utilized by the
facility .
In the event a closure occurs during business hours, USCIS notifies staf f and visitors of the impacted
facility verbally or via a public address system and gives instructions to facilitate their safe and orderly
departure.
2. Facility Remains Open
In the event an emergency or unforeseen circumstance arises within the jurisdiction of a public-facing
USCIS facility , but the facility remains open, USCIS may reschedule missed appointments for
individuals in the impacted area. USCIS may also attempt to directly contact individuals with
appointments scheduled at the facility , as well as their attorneys or representatives of record, to
provide them the option to reschedule their appointments, especially in situations where benefit
requestors may have dif ficulty receiving USCIS notices due to disruptions to the postal service,
displacement or loss of housing, or other factors.
C. Local Emergency Response
Depending on the nature of the emergency or unforeseen circumstance, USCIS staf f at an impacted
facility may need to activate local emergency responses procedures. In the event of a facility closure
occurring when staf f or visitors are present, USCIS evacuates the facility according to the facility’ s
Occupant Emergency Plan. As appropriate, facility leadership and the field security manager with
responsibility for the facility also coordinate with local first responders, as well as relevant federal,
state, and municipal entities.
As part of the USCIS response, the local USCIS field of fice may be activated to a local emergency
response center to assist the af fected population with immigration matters. USCIS personnel may be
able to assist with immigration questions, provide Alien Documentation, Identification, and
Telecommunication (ADIT) stamps for temporary evidence of lawful permanent resident status,
provide Arrival/Departure Records (Form I-94) for proof of status, process biometrics through mobile8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 333/2618