While there is no appeal from the denial of the waiver application, the alien is notified in the denial
notice of the right to renew the adjustment application before an immigration judge during removal
proceedings.[6] The alien has the opportunity to again seek a waiver of inadmissibility in conjunction
with that application. 
D. Requests to Change Name or Date of Birth
Aliens sometimes enter the United States with fraudulent documentation. This fraudulent biographical
information may be entered into the agency’ s information systems as an alias. The alien will have to
address and reconcile any outstanding discrepancies in biographical information found in A-file, other
USCIS records and data systems, or other agency records or background checks at the time of
adjudication of the adjustment of status application.
While an alien who is a principal asylee would have had his or her identity confirmed at the time
asylum status was granted, this may not be true for aliens who are derivative asylees who had neither
an overseas interview nor an interview by a USCIS of ficer as a part of the Form I-730  adjudication
process.
In this case, the alien who is a derivative asylee may have to provide documentation as proof of his or
her true identity if the biographical information contained on the Form I-730  does not match the
information contained on the adjustment of status application. Additionally , the alien would need to
provide a reasonable explanation for why his or her true identity , including name and date of birth, was
not properly established with the Form I-730.
During the asylum or overseas interview , aliens reviewed their asylum application or relative petition
and biographical information and had the opportunity to correct any errors or resolve any identity
issues at that time. Therefore, an of ficer should be cautious in reviewing any documents that now
assert a change to the alien’ s name or date of birth, as it raises the possibility that the person either
used an alias or committed fraud or misrepresentation at the time of the asylum or overseas interview .
An of ficer may not accept an af fidavit as proof of a changed name or date of birth.
An of ficer should be aware that name changes may legitimately occur after the asylum or overseas
interview , such as in the case of a legal adoption, marriage, or divorce. Aliens requesting a name
change at the time of adjustment need to submit one of the following civil-issued documents: 
Legal name change decree – lists former and new legal name;
Marriage certificate – lists maiden name/last name of spouse;
Divorce decree – shows restoration of maiden name; or
Adoption decree – lists adopted child’ s birth name and the names of the adoptive parents.
E. Spelling of Names and Naming Convention Issues8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1826/2618