A statement describing the staf fing of the new operation, including the number of employees and
types of positions held accompanied by evidence of wages paid to employees when the
beneficiary will be employed in a managerial or executive capacity; and
Evidence of the financial status of the U.S. operation. As an example, evidence may include, but
is not limited to, evidence of capitalization of the company or evidence of financial resources
committed by the foreign company , articles of incorporation, by-laws, minutes of board of
directors’  meetings, corporate bank statements, profit and loss statements or other accountant’ s
reports, or tax returns.
Following approval of the initial extension of a new of fice petition, the petitioner is no longer subject to
the new of fice extension provisions; any future extension filing is treated as a regular individual L
extension.[19]
C. Special Considerations
Attestations for L-1A
Petitions                                                                                                                         
An attestation that foreign staf f will support a position in the United States without supporting evidence
generally is not enough to demonstrate eligibility . It is the petitioner ’s burden to meet the
preponderance of the evidence standard. Types of evidence submitted include, but are not limited to:
Organizational charts (U.S. and foreign);
A roster of employees;
Position descriptions;
Payroll records with job titles of the staf f supporting the U.S. entity; and
Invoices for services provided by the foreign entity to U.S. entity , other accounting records
between the entities (or both).
A petitioner may submit any evidence it believes will prove its case, and of ficers must consider the
totality of all the evidence submitted.[20]
Evidence Related to Managerial or Executive Positions for L-1A  Petitions
The employing organization must be doing business in a manner that would require the beneficiary to
perform duties that are primarily managerial or executive in nature. The petitioner may provide a
statement that clearly describes:
The business activities in which the employing organization engages; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 513/2618