The amendments benefit children of U.S. citizen members of the military who are accompanying their
parent abroad on of ficial orders.[40] Specifically , INA 322(d)  provides that:
Such children are not required to have a lawful admission or be present in the United States; and 
The U.S. citizen service member who is the child’ s parent may count any period of time he or
she has resided abroad on of ficial orders as physical presence in the United States.
These benefits are available only to biological, legitimated, or adopted children of U.S. citizen
members of the U.S. armed forces and do not apply to step-children of the U.S. citizen parent. This is
because the definition of “child” applicable to citizenship and naturalization provisions does not include
step-children. The biological or legitimated child of a U.S. citizen parent (and member of the U.S.
armed forces) must meet the requirements in INA 101(c)(1) . An adopted child must meet the
requirements for adopted children.[41]
USCIS will ensure that the child of a member of the U.S. armed forces is not already a U.S. citizen
(has not acquired automatic citizenship[42]) prior to making a determination that he or she qualifies for
naturalization through INA 322.
3. Lawful Admission and Maintenance Status Not Required (INA  322(d))
The child of a service member who is residing abroad with the service member per of ficial orders is
exempt from the temporary physical presence, lawful admission, and maintenance of lawful status
requirements.[43]
4. Treatment of Physical Presence of U.S. Citizen Parent Residing Abroad
Any period of time the U.S. citizen service member who is the child’ s parent is residing or has resided
abroad will be treated as physical presence in the United States if:
The child is authorized to accompany and reside abroad with the service member per of ficial
orders; 
The child is accompanying and residing abroad with the service member; and 
The service member is residing or has resided abroad per of ficial orders. 
The first two conditions above are the triggering events that allow any period of time abroad to count
as physical presence in the United States for the U.S. citizen parent.[44]
If the child is residing abroad with his or her U.S. citizen parent per of ficial orders at the time of filing
the Application for Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322 ( Form N-600K ), then any
previous time the parent has resided abroad on of ficial orders will be treated as physical presence in
the United States regardless of whether the child resided with the parent.
5. Overseas Naturalization for Children Eligible under INA  3228/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2564/2618