education level. Each period of OPT  must be recommended by the DSO and authorized by USCIS, as
shown by a valid EAD.[14] If an F-1 student applies for post-completion OPT  at the same educational
level at which the student had pre-completion OPT , the amount of time approved for pre-completion
OPT is deducted from the post-completion OPT  authorized period.
Overtime and periods of unemployment are not considered when calculating the amount of OPT  used.
Rather , OPT  usage is calculated based on the period of OPT  authorized. For example, if an F-1
student had already received 6 months of full-time pre-completion OPT  during the same degree
program, but with overtime the total number of hours worked was equivalent to 7 months, the total
remaining OPT  time still available would be reduced by 6 months, half of the previously authorized
year.
An F-1 student who has completed an authorized period of post-completion OPT  may remain in F-1
status for 60 days beyond the EAD expiration date.[15] This is commonly known as a grace period,
during which the F-1 student may contact their DSO to change their education level, transfer to
another SEVP-certified school,[16] or file an application or petition with USCIS to change to another
nonimmigrant or immigrant status.
OPT, including STEM OPT , is automatically terminated if an F-1 student:
Transfers to another school;             
Begins a new degree level at the same school;
Changes to a dif ferent nonimmigrant status, such as H-1B;
Fails to maintain F-1 status; or
Is enrolled in a school that closes.
The ef fective termination date is the release date in the Student and Exchange V isitor Information
System (SEVIS) for school transfer or change of program at a new degree level; the ef fective date of
the new nonimmigrant status; the date the student violated F-1 status, as appropriate; or the date that
ICE SEVP  terminates the school in SEVIS upon the school’ s closure. 
1. Pre-Completion OPT
A student enrolled at an ICE SEVP-certified college, university , conservatory , or seminary may apply
to USCIS for authorization for pre-completion OPT  by properly filing an Application for Employment
Authorization ( Form I-765 ) after obtaining the DSO’ s recommendation.
The student may not begin pre-completion OPT  until the date indicated on the student’ s EAD. A
student may submit a Form I-765 to engage in pre-completion OPT  up to 90 days prior to being
enrolled for one full academic year , provided that the period of employment will not begin until after the
completion of the full academic year as indicated by the DSO. Students need an EAD for each period
of pre-completion OPT .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 395/2618