2. Providing Accommodations for Deaf or Hard of Hearing Applicants
In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary for deaf or hard of hearing applicants, USCIS
gives primary consideration to the requests of the person with a disability .
Unless the applicant chooses to bring his or her own sign language interpreter , the field of fice must
provide a sign language interpreter for a deaf or hard of hearing applicant upon his or her request.[2]
The Rehabilitation Act requires USCIS to make an ef fective accommodation for the person's disability ,
and USCIS cannot transfer the accommodation burden back to the person. For example, if
the person uses the sign language Pidgin English, USCIS must provide an interpreter who uses
Pidgin English if one is reasonably available. USCIS cannot tell the person it will provide an American
Sign Language (ASL) interpreter and require the person to provide an interpreter to translate between
Pidgin English and ASL.[3]
The of ficer should use any communication aids for the deaf or hard of hearing where available, permit
the applicant to read lips, and allow the applicant to answer the of ficer’s questions in writing, as
needed.
3. Allowing Relatives and Others to Attend Examinations and Assist in Signing Forms
In cases where an applicant has a disability , the of ficer may allow an applicant’ s family member , legal
guardian, or other person to attend the examination with the applicant. The presence of such a person
or persons may help the applicant to remain calm and responsive during the examination. However , if
the presence of such person or persons becomes disruptive to the examination, the of ficer may at any
time remove the person from the examination and reschedule the examination if the applicant is
unable to proceed at that time.
An of ficer may allow the person accompanying the applicant to repeat the of ficer’s questions in cases
where such repetition facilitates the applicant’ s responsiveness. An applicant’ s mark is acceptable as
the applicant’ s signature on the naturalization application or documents relating to the application
when an applicant is unable to sign. A family member may assist an applicant to sign, initial, or make a
mark when completing the attestation on the naturalization application. Except as provided below , a
family member or other person may not sign the naturalization application for the applicant. 
4. Legal Guardian, Surrogate, or Designated Representative at Examinations
Currently , all applicants for naturalization are required to appear in person and give testimony under
oath as to their eligibility for naturalization.[4] When an applicant is unable to undergo an examination
because of a physical, developmental disability , or mental impairment, a legal guardian, surrogate, or
an eligible designated representative completes the naturalization process for the applicant. USCIS
waives the Oath of Allegiance and the legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative attests8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2293/2618