documents, bylaws or similar operating documents, meeting minutes, or other appropriate
documentation. These examples are illustrative and not exhaustive.
In addition, demonstrating that a non-profit entity is doing business may look dif ferent in comparison to
a for-profit entity . USCIS considers an entity may also qualify if it is providing such goods or services in
a regular , systematic, and continuous way to others within its organization, if the record demonstrates
how that activity generates revenue or otherwise facilitates the organization’ s purpose. USCIS
recognizes that many non-profit organizations do not generate revenue by providing goods or
services. In these cases, doing business refers to performing the activities that serve to advance the
underlying goals and purpose of the organization.
Opening New Office in United States
If the beneficiary is coming to the United States to open a new of fice, USCIS requires proof of
ownership and control, in addition to financial viability . The petitioners’  statement of ownership and
control should therefore be accompanied by appropriate evidence such as evidence of capitalization
of the company or evidence of financial resources committed by the foreign company , operating or
LLC agreements, partnership agreements, articles of incorporation, by-laws, and minutes of board of
directors’  meetings, corporate bank statements, profit and loss statements, accountant’ s reports, or tax
returns.[6]
The following sections discuss some aspects of dif ferent business structures as they relate to L
adjudications.
A. Sole Proprietorships
A sole proprietorship is a business in which an individual owns all the assets, owes all the liabilities,
and operates the business in the individual’ s personal capacity .[7] Unlike a corporation or other
separate and distinct legal entity that may have a single owner or shareholder , a sole proprietorship
does not exist as a distinct legal entity separate from the individual owner .
By statute, an L-1 beneficiary must have been “employed continuously… by a firm or corporation or
other legal entity or an af filiate or subsidiary thereof...”[8] This means that there must be separation
between the employing entity and the beneficiary . A sole proprietorship therefore may not file an L-1
petition on behalf of the owner , as it is not a distinct legal entity separate from the owner .[9]
Such a petition where the sole-proprietor owner and beneficiary are the same would be considered an
impermissible self-petition.
While an L-1 petition filed by a sole proprietorship on behalf of its sole owner is not approvable,
because a sole proprietorship may have employees, USCIS may approve an L-1 petition filed by a
sole proprietorship on behalf of an otherwise eligible employee, depending on the facts presented. A
qualifying L-1 relationship can exist between a sole proprietorship and a related entity if the common8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 487/2618