benefits considered in public charge inadmissibility determinations,[16] and active-duty service
members therefore generally will not be impacted by the consideration of receipt of public benefits in a
public charge inadmissibility determination.
In the rare case of an active-duty service member who received or is receiving public cash assistance
for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense, the of ficer should
consider any evidence the applicant provides regarding circumstances surrounding the duration,
amount, and recency of receipt, and how that may have been impacted by their service. The of ficer
should also consider any evidence the applicant submits relating to skills they obtained through their
military service.
Crime, Domestic V iolence, or Other Adverse Circumstances
Aliens who have experienced crime, domestic violence, or other adverse circumstances may have
used public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government
expense but may not fall into one of the specific categories that Congress has exempted from the
public charge ground of inadmissibility .[17] Such aliens may choose to provide information or evidence
relating to their temporary circumstances that may be relevant to a public charge inadmissibility
determination.[18] USCIS takes the surrounding circumstances into account in the totality of the
circumstances.
B. Totality of the Circumstances Scenarios
Below are hypothetical examples that are intended to help illustrate a USCIS of ficer’s review of an
applicant’ s factors, circumstances, and evidence, in the totality of the circumstances. These
hypotheticals are not meant to be exhaustive or all-inclusive with respect to the scenarios that may
give rise to a public charge inadmissibility finding; rather they are illustrative of the process and are not
meant to dictate the outcome of any particular case.
Although a USCIS of ficer may encounter similar fact patterns as those presented in the scenarios
below , an of ficer may reasonably reach a dif ferent conclusion than what is described below in
consideration of the totality of the individual’ s circumstances. Public charge inadmissibility
determinations are made in the totality of circumstances for each individual case, on a case-by-case
basis.
Additionally , for purposes of the following hypothetical scenarios, it is assumed that:
The applicant is applying for adjustment of status before USCIS and is otherwise eligible for the
benefit;
The applicant submitted the required forms and all other required supporting evidence; and
The facts asserted are supported by evidence in the record.
Scenario 18/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2022/2618