only exception to this requirement is if a U.S. employer employs 100 or more workers, it may instead
include a financial of ficer statement.[6]    
1. Annual Reports
Publicly traded companies of a certain size are required to submit annual reports to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K. The SEC Form 10-K provides an overview of the
company’ s business and includes its audited financial statements. These companies must also issue
an annual report to shareholders, which contains the company’ s audited financial data and is often a
simplified version of the SEC Form 10-K. Either the SEC Form 10-K or the annual report to
shareholders constitute an annual report under 8 CFR 204.5(g)(2) . Annual reports of private
companies are also acceptable but are most persuasive to establish a petitioner ’s ability to pay when
they contain audited financial data.
2. Federal T ax Returns
The petitioner ’s business structure or entity classification election determines the applicable Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) tax return form and filing deadline. Submitted tax returns should be complete,
including all required schedules. At times, USCIS may request schedules, statements, attachments,
and other supporting documentation when the submitted evidence does not establish the petitioner ’s
ability to pay . In addition, USCIS may request the submission of IRS-issued certified copies or
transcripts of tax returns in certain circumstances, such as when the petitioner has amended its tax
returns in the middle of USCIS’  adjudication of the petition or when there is a question about the
information contained on the returns.
The Business Structures  overview provides more information on the most common business forms or
structures and the tax forms they file with the IRS.
3. Audited Financial Statements
If the petitioner relies on financial statements to demonstrate ability to pay as initial evidence, the
financial statements must be audited. Audited financial statements are financial statements that have
been examined under an acceptable standard by an accountant authorized by the jurisdiction to
perform the audit; for example, by a certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP).[7] Audited financial statements must be accompanied by an auditor ’s
report that states that the financial statements have been audited.[8]
Audited financial statements are distinct from compiled or reviewed financial statements. Compiled
and reviewed financial statements are less rigorous reviews of a client’ s financial statements and
therefore the petitioner may only use them to establish ability to pay when accompanied by the other
initial required forms of evidence required by the regulation. The auditor ’s report accompanying the
financial statements states whether the financial statements have been audited, compiled, or
reviewed.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1103/2618