As stated above, USCIS can only grant this waiver after it has consulted with CDC. However , CDC’ s
review of necessary documents does not constitute a waiver approval. CDC may recommend that
USCIS should make the waiver subject to appropriate terms, conditions, or controls. 
To obtain CDC’ s review of a waiver application, the of ficer should forward the following documents to
CDC: 
A cover letter that identifies the USCIS of fice requesting the review;
 A copy of the waiver application (including the TB supplement,[9] if applicable) that contains all
the required signatures, excluding the supporting documentation that is not medically relevant;
[10]
 A copy of the medical examination documentation;[11]
 Copies of all other medical reports, laboratory results, and evaluations regardless of whether
they are connected to the communicable disease of public health significance. 
3. Sending Documents to CDC
Officers should email the documents to cdcqap@cdc.gov .
To request expedited review , officers should indicate in the subject line of the email to CDC that the
request is “Urgent.” 
4. CDC Response
Once CDC receives and reviews the documents, CDC will forward a response letter with its
recommendation to the requesting USCIS of fice.  
CDC’ s usual processing time for review and response to the requesting USCIS of fice is approximately
4 weeks. If CDC’ s response appears delayed, the of ficer may contact CDC at cdcqap@cdc.gov  to
obtain a status update.
Upon receipt, the of ficer should review CDC’ s response letter to determine next steps.
If CDC’ s response letter indicates that CDC was satisfied with the initial documentation
and that it does not require additional information, then the of ficer may proceed to the next step of the
waiver adjudication. If CDC was not satisfied with the documentation, it may request additional
information or recommend additional conditions to be met before the waiver may be granted. In such a
case, the of ficer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) for the applicant to provide the additional
information or to demonstrate that he or she made the arrangements required by CDC. 
If CDC requests it, the of ficer will need to submit the information obtained through the RFE to CDC to
determine whether the additional information is suf ficient. CDC will provide a response letter to the
requesting USCIS of fice advising if the additional information is suf ficient.[12]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2150/2618