To obtain approval of a petition for special immigrant status under the AAPA, the petitioner must
establish that the petitioner is a citizen or national of Afghanistan who was or is employed in
Afghanistan:[7]
By or on behalf of the U.S. government; or
By the ISAF (or any successor name for the ISAF) while:
Traveling of f-base with U.S. military personnel stationed at the ISAF (or any successor
name for the ISAF), to serve as an interpreter or translator for such U.S. military personnel;
or
To perform activities for the U.S. military personnel stationed at the ISAF (or any successor
name for the ISAF); and
Was employed on or after October 7, 2001, and before the date established by the most recent
program extension,[8] for a period of not less than 1 year;[9]
Provided faithful and valuable service to the U.S. government, as documented in a positive
recommendation or evaluation by the petitioner ’s employer;
Has experienced or is experiencing an ongoing serious threat as a consequence of the
petitioner ’s employment by the U.S. government;
Has cleared a background check and appropriate screening as determined by the Secretary of
Homeland Security; and
Is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant visa and is otherwise admissible to the United
States for permanent residence.[10]
D. Documentation and Evidence
The petitioner must submit the following evidence along with a completed Form I-360 :
A copy of the petitioner ’s passport, birth certificate, or national identification card showing that
the petitioner is a citizen or national of Afghanistan, along with a certified English translation, if
the document is in a foreign language;
A positive recommendation from:
The U.S. citizen or national who is the petitioner ’s senior supervisor;
The U.S. citizen or national who occupies the supervisor ’s position; or
The U.S. citizen or national who is more senior if the senior supervisor has left the
employer or has left Afghanistan, confirming employment of not less than 1 year beginning
on or after October 7, 2001, if it is not possible to obtain a recommendation from a
supervisor who is a U.S. citizen or national;[11]
Proof of COM approval based on an independent review of this recommendation conducted by
the COM or the COM’ s designee of records maintained by the U.S. government or hiring
organization or entity , to confirm employment and faithful and valuable service to the U.S.
government;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1351/2618