to all pending applications and petitions that would have been subject to the rule. For
information on related litigation affecting implementation, see the Inadmissibility on Public
Charge Grounds Final Rule: Litigation  webpage. The alert text below and related guidance are
no longer in effect.
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to
address the final rule on the public charge ground of inadmissibility . This policy guidance is ef fective
on February 24, 2020, and will apply to all applicants and petitioners filing applications and petitions
for adjustment of status, extension of stay , and change of status, except for applicants and petitioners
in the State of Illinois, whose cases will be adjudicated under prior policy , including the 1999 Interim
Field Guidance (PDF)  and AFM Ch. 61.1 (PDF) . For additional information, see Public Charge
Inadmissibility Determinations in Illinois . Certain classes of aliens are exempt from the public charge
ground of inadmissibility (such as refugees, asylees, certain V AWA self-petitioners, U petitioners, and
T applicants) and therefore, are not subject to the Inadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds final rule.
For more information about the classes of [noncitizens] who are exempt from the final rule, see
the appendices  related to applicability .
Read More
Affected Sections
2 USCIS-PM A.4 - Chapter 4 - Extension of Stay , Change of Status, and Extension of Petition V alidity
8 USCIS-PM G  - Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility
12 USCIS-PM D.2  - Chapter 2 - Lawful Permanent Resident Admission for Naturalization
POLICY  ALER T - Accepting Petition for Alien Relative (Form I-130) Abroad
January 31, 2020
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy
Manual to address the limited circumstances in which USCIS has delegated authority to the U.S.
Department of State to accept and adjudicate the Form I-130 filed abroad at U.S. embassies and
consulates. This guidance becomes ef fective February 1, 2020.
Read More
Affected Sections
6 USCIS-PM B.3  - Chapter 3 - Filing8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 101/2618