to the DOS-WRD through of ficial diplomatic channels. DOS-WRD then sends its recommendation to
USCIS.
2. Evidence
Upon receipt of the no objection letter and the DOS-WRD recommendation, of ficers should review the
case to ensure that documentation is in order and that the waiver is appropriate for the exchange
visitor ’s circumstances (for example, ensure that the applicant did not come to the United States as an
exchange visitor , or later acquire such status, in order to receive graduate medical training or
education). If the exchange visitor is eligible for the waiver , USCIS approves the waiver and notifies
the applicant and the applicant's legal representative, if applicable, of the approval.[25]
E. Interested Government Agency
Any U.S. IGA  may request a waiver if the IGA  is able to demonstrate that either the J-1 exchange
visitor's departure would be detrimental to one of its programs or the exchange visitor's stay in the
United States is vital to one of its programs.[26] The rationale for an IGA  waiver is that it is in the public
interest to have the exchange visitor remain in the United States. The exchange visitor need not be an
employee of the agency unless the agency has internal guidelines requiring that the exchange visitor
be employed by it before it may recommend a waiver .
The head of the agency (or their designee) must sign the letter requesting the waiver and submit it to
the DOS-WRD.[27] DOS-WRD forwards its recommendation to USCIS.
F. Foreign Medical Graduates – Federal, State, and Conrad 30 Programs
1. General Requirements
Upon completion of the J-1 exchange visitor ’s program, a foreign medical graduate (FMG) may obtain
a waiver of the foreign residence requirement pursuant to INA 214(l)  through a recommendation of a
state or federal agency interested in facilitating the FMG’ s employment in a federally designated
shortage area as an H-1B nonimmigrant.[28] To be eligible for the waiver , the FMG must:
Agree to be employed full time[29] in H-1B nonimmigrant status at a health care facility located in
an area designated by U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as a Health
Professional Shortage Area (HPSA), Medically Underserved Area (MUA), or Medically
Underserved Population (MUP).
Practice medicine at the health care facility named in the waiver application for at least 3 years,
and generally in HHS-designated shortage areas.[30]
An FMG who fails to fulfill the 3-year contract is ineligible for an immigrant visa, lawful
permanent resident status, or change of status to another nonimmigrant classification
without meeting the 2-year foreign residence requirement unless the failure was due to8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 356/2618