The passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of 1952 organized all existing immigration
laws into one consolidated source.[8] The INA  retained a modified system of both qualitative and
numerical restrictions on permanent immigration. The INA  established a revised version of the
controversial National Origins Quota System, limiting immigration from the eastern hemisphere while
leaving immigration from the western hemisphere unrestricted.
The INA  also introduced a system of numerically limited immigrant preference categories, some based
on desirable job skills and others based on family reunification. Spouses and children (unmarried and
under 21 years old) of U.S. citizens remained exempt from any quota restrictions.
In addition, the INA  established a formal system of temporary (or nonimmigrant) categories under
which aliens could come to the United States for various temporary purposes such as to visit, study , or
work. For the first time, the INA  also provided a procedure for aliens temporarily in the United States to
adjust status to permanent resident status without having to travel abroad and undergo consular
processing. 
Although it has since been amended many times, the INA  remains the foundation of current
immigration law in the United States.
3. Post-1952 Developments
Congress amended the INA  in 1965 to abolish the National Origins Quota System, creating in its place
separate quotas for immigration from the eastern and western hemispheres.[9] These amendments
also established a revised preference system of six categories for family-based and employment-
based categories, and added a seventh preference category for refugees. Finally , the law introduced
an initial version of what has evolved into today’ s permanent labor certification program. 
Further amendments in 1976 and 1978 ultimately combined the eastern and western hemisphere
quotas into a single worldwide quota system which limited annual immigration from any single country
to 20,000 and established an overall limit of 290,000 immigrants per year .[10]
The Refugee Act of 1980 established a separate immigration program for refugees, eliminating the
existing seventh preference category , and formally adopted the legal definition of “refugee” used by
the United Nations.[11]
The Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA) of 1986 provided a pathway for obtaining permanent
resident status to certain agricultural workers and aliens who had been continuously present in the
United States since before January 1, 1982.[12] IRCA  also increased immigration enforcement at U.S.
borders and established a program which, for the first time in history , required U.S. employers to verify
all newly hired employees’  work authorization in the United States. This is sometimes called the
employer sanctions program or the I-9 program.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1432/2618