Notably , the evidence evaluated in this step is also reviewed in the next step where the of ficer must
determine whether the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field
of endeavor , and that the person has sustained national or international acclaim.
However , objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in the first step alone does not establish that the
person in fact meets the requirements for classification as a person with extraordinary ability .[41]
For example:
Participating in the judging of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization
alone, regardless of the circumstances, should satisfy the regulatory criteria in the first step of
the analysis. However , the second step requires the of ficer to evaluate the person's participation
to determine whether it was indicative of the person being one of that small percentage who
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or
international acclaim.
Publishing scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major media
alone, regardless of the caliber , should satisfy the regulatory criteria in the first step of the
analysis. However , the second step requires the of ficer to evaluate the person's publications to
determine whether they were indicative of the person being one of that small percentage who
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or
international acclaim.
The question of whether the person is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of
the field of endeavor and enjoys sustained national or international acclaim should be addressed in
the second step of the analysis (final merits determination). In the first step, the of ficer is only required
to determine if the evidence objectively meets the regulatory criteria.
2. Final Merits Determination
In the second step of the analysis, the of ficer should consider the petition in its entirety to determine
eligibility according to the standard. To establish eligibility , the petition must demonstrate that the
person has sustained national or international acclaim and that their achievements have been
recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor . The of ficer applies a preponderance of the evidence
standard when making this determination.
An of ficer may not limit the kind of evidence the of ficer thinks the person should be able to submit and
deny the petition if that particular type of evidence (whether one of the prescribed types[42] or
comparable evidence[43]) is absent, if the person nonetheless submitted other types of evidence that
meet the regulatory requirements for the classification.
For example, an of ficer may think that if a person is extraordinary , there should be published articles
about the person and the person’ s work. However , an of ficer cannot deny the petition because no8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1162/2618