In all cases involving authorized signers for corporations or other legal entities, the benefit request
must contain a statement by the person signing the request, af firming that:
He or she has the legal authority to file the request on the petitioning employer ’s behalf;
The employer is aware of all of the facts stated in the request; and
Such factual statements are complete, true, and correct.
If such af firmation if the form itself, a signature by the person filing the form may be suf ficient to meet
this requirement. If the af firmation specified above is not contained in the form, the authorized signer
must provide a separate statement af firming that he or she has the authority to legally bind the
corporation or other legal entity .
If USCIS has reason to doubt a person’ s authority to sign or act on behalf of a corporation or other
legal entity , USCIS may request evidence that demonstrates the person has the requisite legal
authority to sign the request. Such requested evidence may include, but is not limited to:
Bylaws;
Articles of organization;
A letter reflecting delegation of such authority from a corporate of ficer or board member;
Board of director ’s minutes reflecting the grant or the board’ s approval of such authority being
exercised by the person in question; or
A similar document that indicates the employee may legally bind the corporation or other legal
entity with his or her signature.                 
D. Clarification Regarding Form G-28
An attorney or accredited representative may sign and submit a Notice of Entry of Appearance as
Attorney or Accredited Representative ( Form G-28 ) to certify that the person, corporation, or other
legal entity named in the Form G-28 has authorized the attorney or representative to act on the
person’ s or legal entity’ s behalf in front of Department of Homeland Security (DHS). However , a Form
G-28 by itself does not authorize a representative to sign a request or other document on behalf of a
person or legal entity . Further , an attorney or representative may not use a POA  to sign a Form G-28
on behalf of a person or legal entity to authorize his or her own appearance.
Footnotes
[^ 1] Except as specifically authorized in the regulations, this guidance, or in the respective form
instructions, an applicant, petitioner , or requestor must personally sign his or her own request before
filing it with USCIS.
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 103.2(a)(2) . The term “request” refers to any written request for an immigration
benefit, service, or request for action, whether the request is submitted on an Of fice of Management8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 215/2618