relates to a field, including those that are research and development-intensive industries,[93] where
appropriate activity and investment, both early and later in the development cycle, may contribute to
the United States achieving or maintaining technology leadership or peer status among allies and
partners.
With respect to the first prong, as in all cases, the evidence must demonstrate that a STEM endeavor
has both substantial merit and national importance. Many proposed endeavors that aim to advance
STEM technologies and research, whether in academic or industry settings, not only have substantial
merit in relation to U.S. science and technology interests, but also have suf ficiently broad potential
implications to demonstrate national importance.
On the other hand, while proposed classroom teaching activities in STEM, for example, may have
substantial merit in relation to U.S. educational interests, such activities, by themselves, generally are
not indicative of an impact in the field of STEM education more broadly , and therefore generally would
not establish their national importance.[94]
For the second prong, as mentioned above, the person’ s education and skillset are relevant to
whether the person is well positioned to advance the endeavor .[95] USCIS considers an advanced
degree, particularly a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), in a STEM field tied to the proposed endeavor and
related to work furthering a critical and emerging technology or other STEM area important to U.S.
competitiveness or national security , an especially positive factor to be considered along with other
evidence for purposes of the assessment under the second prong.[96]
Persons with a Ph.D. in a STEM field, as well as certain other persons with advanced STEM degrees
relating to the proposed endeavor , have scientific knowledge in a narrow STEM area since doctoral
dissertations and some master ’s theses concentrate on a particularized subject matter . Officers should
then consider whether that specific STEM area relates to the proposed endeavor . Even when the area
of concentration is in a theoretical STEM area (theoretical mathematics or physics, for example), it
may further U.S. competitiveness or national security as described in the proposed endeavor .
Examples of evidence that can supplement the person’ s education are listed above,[97] but a
petitioner may submit any relevant evidence, including letters from interested government agencies as
discussed below ,[98] to show how the person is well positioned to advance the proposed endeavor . A
degree in and of itself, however , is not a suf ficient basis to determine that a person is well positioned
to advance the proposed endeavor .
Finally , with respect to the third prong, it is the petitioner ’s burden to establish that factors in favor of
granting the waiver outweigh those that support the requirement of a job of fer and thus a labor
certification.
When evaluating the third prong and whether the United States may benefit from the person’ s entry ,
regardless of whether other U.S. workers are available (as well as other factors relating to prong three8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1210/2618