K visa.[12] Such country is the country of nationality or legal permanent residence listed on the
Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange V isitor Status (Form DS-2019), and is referred to herein as the
“Home Country .”
These exchange visitors are further prohibited from changing status from J nonimmigrant status to
another nonimmigrant status, other than A, G, T, or U, or H-1B for physicians receiving waivers on the
basis of a 3-year waiver position.[13]
Exchange visitors participating in the following programs are subject to the foreign residence
requirement: [14]
Programs facilitated by the DOS designated sponsor , Educational Commission for Foreign
Medical Graduates (ECFMG), for medical trainees. (ECFMG sponsored medical researchers are
generally not subject to the requirement as medical trainees, but may be subject to the
requirement on another basis);
Programs in which the exchange visitor has received any type of government funding or support
from the exchange visitor ’s home country or country of last legal permanent residence, the U.S.
Government, or an international organization, as indicated on the Form DS-2019 . (Government-
sponsored programs beginning with G in the program number on Form DS-2019 are usually
government-funded where the exchange visitor received financial support from the sponsor);
Programs in which the exchange visitor ’s field of endeavor appears on the DOS Exchange
Visitor Skills List (list of fields of specialized knowledge or skills in which the services of
exchange visitor participants are critically needed) for the exchange visitor ’s home country or
country of last legal permanent residence; [15] and
Programs whose purpose is graduate medical training, typically a residency or fellowship.
Determining if the Foreign Residence Requirement Has Been Met
USCIS determines whether the exchange visitor has met the 2-year foreign residence requirement
within the context of a subsequent application or petition. USCIS applies the preponderance of the
evidence standard when it makes this determination.
Benefit requestors may submit any relevant evidence showing their physical presence in the Home
Country . For example, benefit requestors may submit a chart of days spent in the Home Country .
Benefit requestors may also submit supporting evidence such as passport stamps, travel receipts,
employment records, school transcripts, leases, or af fidavits.
Any day where a fraction of a day is spent in the Home Country counts toward satisfaction of the
requirement. For example, a travel day , where a fraction of the day is spent in the country of last
permanent residence, counts as a day towards satisfying the requirement.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 349/2618