limit, a temporal period is not specified for O nonimmigrants. The regulations state that the validity
period must be that which is "necessary to accomplish the event or activity , not to exceed 3 years."[8]
If the activities on the itinerary are related in such a way that they could be considered an event, the
petition should be approved for the requested validity period. For example, a series of events that
involve the same performers and the same or similar performance, such as a tour by a performing
artist in venues around the United States, would constitute an event. In another example, if there is a
break in between events in the United States and the petitioner indicates the beneficiary will be
returning abroad to engage in activities that are incidental or related to the work performed in the
United States, it does not necessarily interrupt the original event.
The burden is on the petitioner to demonstrate that the activities listed on the itinerary relate to the
event despite gaps in which the beneficiary may travel abroad and return to the United States. Those
gaps may include time in which the beneficiary attends seminars, vacations, or travels between
engagements.[9] Those gaps would not be considered to interrupt the original event, and the full
period of time requested may be granted as the gaps are incidental to the original event. If a review of
the itinerary does not establish an event or activity or a series of connected events and activities that
would allow the validity period requested, or if the petitioner is requesting a validity period beyond the
last established event or activity , the of ficer may , in his or her discretion, issue a Request for Evidence
(RFE). The RFE provides the petitioner an opportunity to provide additional documentation to
establish the requested validity period.
Officers evaluate the totality of the evidence submitted under the pertinent statute and regulations to
determine if the events and activities on the itinerary are connected in such a way that they would be
considered an event for purposes of the validity period. If the evidence establishes that the activities or
events are related in such a way that they could be considered an event, the of ficer approves the
petition for the length of the established validity period.
Even though USCIS may consider a group of related activities to be an event, speculative employment
or freelancing are not allowed.[10] A petitioner must establish that there are events or activities in the
beneficiary's field of extraordinary ability for the validity period requested. Evidence of such events or
activities could include an itinerary for a tour , contract or summary of the terms of the oral agreement
under which the beneficiary will be employed, or contracts between the beneficiary and employers if
an agent is being used.
Maintaining Status
USCIS does not consider a beneficiary in O-1 status to have failed to maintain nonimmigrant status
solely because of the cessation of the employment on which the visa classification was based for a
period of up to 60 days or until the end of the authorized validity period, whichever is shorter . USCIS
may shorten or eliminate this 60-day grace period as a matter of discretion. Unless otherwise
authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12 , the O-1 beneficiary may not work during such a period.[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 573/2618