Principle Description
Accountability
and AuditingDHS has a number of accountability mechanisms, including reviews of its
operations, training for employees, and investigations when appropriate.
C. Personally Identifiable Information
DHS defines PII as any information that permits the identity of a person to be directly or indirectly
inferred, including any information which is linked or linkable to that person regardless of whether the
person is a U.S. citizen, lawful permanent resident (LPR), visitor to the United States, or a DHS
employee or contractor .[3]
Sensitive PII is defined as information which, if lost, compromised, or disclosed without authorization,
could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to a person.[4] Some
examples of PII that USCIS personnel may encounter include:
Name;
Address;
Date of birth; and
Certificate of Naturalization or Citizenship number .
Alien number (A-number);
Social Security number;
Driver ’s license or state ID number;
Passport number; and
Biometric identifiers.
USCIS employees have a professional and legal responsibility to protect the PII the agency collects,
disseminates, uses, or maintains. All USCIS employees must follow proper procedures when handling
all PII and all information encountered in the course of their work. All USCIS employees processing PII
must know and follow the policies and procedures for collecting, storing, handling, and sharing PII.
Specifically , USCIS employees must:
Collect PII only when authorized;
Limit the access and use of PII;
Secure PII when not in use;
Share PII, only as authorized, with persons who have a need to know; and
Complete and remain current with all privacy , computer security , and special protected class
training mandates.
D. Case-Specific Inquiries
USCIS receives a variety of case-specific inquiries, including requests for case status updates,
accommodations at interviews, appointment rescheduling, and the resolution of other administrative8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 174/2618