adjudicate the petition.
If the beneficiary is located outside of the United States, USCIS sends the petition through the DOS
National V isa Center (NVC) to a USCIS international field oﬀice or a DOS embassy or consulate. If the
Form I-730  beneficiary is located outside of the United States in a country where USCIS has an
international field of fice presence, USCIS interviews the beneficiary at the appropriate international
field of fice and adjudicates the petition.[2]
If the Form I-730  beneficiary is located outside of the United States in a country with no USCIS
international field of fice presence, USCIS adjudicates the petition before sending it to a DOS embassy
or consulate. DOS interviews and completes processing of the beneficiary on USCIS’  behalf and
determines the beneficiary’ s eligibility to travel to the United States.
If the Form I-730  beneficiary completes an interview and additional processing at a DOS embassy or
consulate and the DOS consular of ficer determines the beneficiary is ineligible to travel to the United
States, DOS returns the Form I-730 petition to the USCIS domestic processing of fice with a consular
return memo outlining the ineligibility reasons.
The USCIS initial domestic processing of fice then reviews the information provided by DOS and
determines whether to reaf firm the initial approval of the Form I-730  petition or reopen and reconsider
the approval and issue a Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) to the Form I-730 petitioner .
A. Receipt
By regulation, all Form I-730  petitions must be filed with and adjudicated by USCIS.[3] USCIS receives
all Form I-730 filings and enters the Form I-730 data into USCIS systems. USCIS then routes the
petitions to an of ficer depending on two main factors:
Whether the petitioner received refugee or asylee status; and
Where the beneficiary is currently located.
B. Initial Domestic Processing
During initial domestic processing of Form I-730  petitions, USCIS conducts an initial eligibility review
for eligibility , timeliness, and completeness. 
During the initial eligibility review , an of ficer:
Determines whether the petitioner is eligible to file the Form I-730  petition;[4]
Determines whether the petitioner timely filed the Form I-730  petition;[5]
Determines whether a qualifying family relationship exists between the petitioner and beneficiary
listed on the Form I-730 ;[6] and
Reviews preliminary security checks.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 862/2618