A. Drug Abuse or Drug Addiction
Applicants who are found to be drug abusers or addicts are inadmissible.[1] Drug abuse and drug
addiction are current substance-use disorders or substance-induced disorders of a controlled
substance listed in Section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act, as defined in the Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) published by the American Psychiatric Association or by
another authoritative source as determined by the Director .[2]
In 2010, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) changed the Technical Instructions on
how a civil surgeon determines whether an applicant is a drug abuser or drug addict.[3] The civil
surgeon must now make this determination according to the DSM as specified in the Technical
Instructions.[4]
If the applicant is classified as a drug abuser or addict, the applicant can apply again for an
immigration benefit if his or her drug abuse or addiction is in remission. Remission is now defined by
DSM criteria, and no longer by a set timeframe as it was under previous Technical Instructions.[5] In
order for an applicant’ s drug abuse or addiction to be classified as in remission, the applicant must
return to a civil surgeon for a new assessment.
If the of ficer has reason to question the completeness or accuracy of the medical examination report,
the of ficer should ask CDC to review the medical report before sending a Request for Evidence (RFE).
Most applicants who are found to be drug abusers or addicts are ineligible for a waiver; the availability
depends, however , on the immigration benefit the applicant seeks.[6]
B. Part of Form I-693 Addressing Drug Abuse or Drug Addiction
The civil surgeon must check the appropriate findings box on the medical examination report. The civil
surgeon should also either annotate the findings in the remarks section or attach a report, if the space
provided is not suf ficient. However , the of ficer should not RFE simply because the civil surgeon has
omitted the remarks or failed to attach a report.
C. Request for CDC Advisory Opinion
If an of ficer has a case where there is a question concerning the diagnosis or classification made by
the civil surgeon or panel physician, the of ficer may forward the pertinent documents to CDC and
request an advisory opinion.
The request should include the following documents:
A cover letter indicating the request, reason(s) for the request, and the USCIS of fice making the
request;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1917/2618