to the extent possible, to complete action on the petition or application before the hearing date. USCIS
maintains communication with ICE regarding the progress and status of the case. 
USCIS adjudicates all immigration benefit requests according to existing laws, regulations, and USCIS
policies and procedures. If acting on ICE's request to adjudicate an application or petition might
compromise those responsibilities or adherence to any law , regulation, policy or procedure, USCIS
notifies ICE that the adjudication cannot be completed within the 30- or 45-day timeframe. USCIS
continues to communicate with ICE about the status of the case. 
To the extent ICE currently coordinates directly with USCIS service centers with respect to benefit
requests pending at the service centers, this guidance does not supersede or amend those
arrangements. 
B. Transferring Jurisdiction
A pending application or petition may be transferred to a dif ferent of fice or jurisdiction for several
reasons, including but not limited to:
The application or petition was not filed in the proper jurisdiction;
The benefit requestor now resides within another jurisdiction;
An application or petition pending at a service center appears to warrant an in-person interview
at a field of fice; or
Regulations require transfer of an application or petition to another of fice for specific action.
For certain applications, such as an Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 ), the applicant must
meet certain jurisdictional requirements relating to residency as of the date of filing; transferring
jurisdiction alone may not adequately address such filing deficiency .[1]
Footnote
[^ 1] See V olume 12, Citizenship and Naturalization, Part D, General Naturalization Requirements,
Chapter 6, Jurisdiction, Place of Residence, and Early Filing [ 12 USCIS-PM D.6 ].
Chapter 4 - Burden and Standards of Proof
A. Burden of Proof
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for an immigration benefit always falls solely on the benefit
requestor .[1] The burden of proof never shifts to USCIS. 8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 263/2618