The statutory definition of the term "executive capacity"[37] focuses on a person's position within an
organization. To adjudicate a petition for a multinational executive or manager properly , therefore, the
officer should have a basic understanding not only of the position the beneficiary intends to fill, but
also of the nature and structure of the organization itself.
The term “executive capacity” means an assignment within an organization in which the employee
primarily:
Directs the management of the organization or a major component or function of the
organization;
Establishes the goals and policies of the organization, component, or function;
Exercises wide latitude in discretionary decision making; and
Receives only general supervision or direction from higher level executives, the board of
directors, or stockholders of the organization.[38]
USCIS does not consider a beneficiary an executive under the statute simply because he or she has
an executive title or because some portion of his or her time is spent directing the enterprise as the
owner or sole managerial employee; the focus is on the primary duties of the beneficiary . In this
regard, there must be suf ficient staf f (for example, contract employees or others) to perform the day-
to-day operations of the petitioning organization in order to enable the beneficiary to be primarily
employed in the executive function.
4. Evaluating Managerial or Executive Status
The petitioner must establish that the U.S. entity itself is in fact conducting business at a level that
would require the services of a person primarily engaged in executive (or managerial) functions. In
making this determination, an of ficer should consider , as appropriate, the nature of the business,
including its size, its organizational structure, and the product or service it provides.
When examining the executive or managerial capacity of the beneficiary , an of ficer should look first to
the petitioner's description of the job duties.[39] Specifics are an important indication of whether a
beneficiary's duties are primarily executive or managerial in nature. Merely repeating or paraphrasing
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof.
If the beneficiary performs non-managerial administrative or operational duties, the description of the
beneficiary's job duties must demonstrate what proportion of the beneficiary's duties is managerial in
nature, and what proportion is non-managerial. A beneficiary who primarily performs non-managerial
or non-executive duties does not qualify as a manager or executive under the statutory definitions.
Additionally , officers should review the totality of the evidence, including descriptions of a beneficiary's
duties and his or her subordinate employees, the nature of the petitioner's business, the employment
and remuneration of other employees, and any other facts contributing to a complete understanding of
a beneficiary's actual role in the business. The evidence must demonstrate that the duties of the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1189/2618