Acts and Amendments Key Changes
psychological trauma suf fered as unreasonable. 
Eliminated the requirement that relatives of the principal
trafficking victim demonstrate extreme hardship to obtain
derivative T nonimmigrant status. 
Created an additional avenue for traf ficking victims to adjust
status before accruing 3 years of continuous physical
presence in cases where the Attorney General certifies that
the investigation or prosecution is complete. 
Permitted some traf ficking victims earlier access to
permanent residence by allowing period(s) of continuous
physical presence during the investigation or prosecution into
acts of traf ficking to count towards the physical presence
requirement for adjustment of status under INA 245(l) . 
Extended 8 U.S.C. 1367  confidentiality protections to
applicants for T nonimmigrant status.
Created a waiver for the unlawful presence ground of
inadmissibility where the traf ficking was at least one central
reason for the applicant’ s unlawful presence in the United
States. 
Permitted aliens who entered the United States in certain
nonimmigrant statuses to later change status to T
nonimmigrant status, if eligible.
William W ilberforce
Trafficking V ictims
Protection Reauthorization
Act (TVPRA  2008)[11]Provided that an applicant can establish the physical
presence requirement if the applicant was allowed entry into
the United States to participate in investigative or judicial
processes associated with an act or a perpetrator of
trafficking.
Provided an exception to the requirement to comply with
reasonable requests for assistance from law enforcement
due to physical or psychological trauma.
Extended eligibility for derivative status to parents or
unmarried siblings under the age of 18 who face a present
danger of retaliation as a result of the principal’ s escape from
trafficking or cooperation with law enforcement.
Expanded ability to extend T nonimmigrant status by allowing
DHS to consider exceptional circumstances.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 644/2618