them would be insuf ficient by itself”), on rehearing, 662 F .2d 561, 562-63 (9th Cir . 1981) (per curiam)
(again listing both hardships to the qualifying relative petitioners and hardships to their U.S. citizen
child, holding that these hardships “must all be assessed in combination,” and finding that the Board
had erred in failing to do so). See Jong Ha W ang v . INS , 622 F .2d 1341, 1347 (9th Cir . 1980) (“[T]he
Board should consider the aggregate ef fect of deportation on all such persons when the alien alleges
hardship to more than one.”), rev’d on other grounds , 450 U.S. 139 (1981) (per curiam). These
decisions all interpreted the former suspension of deportation provision. The list of qualifying
individuals (which included the petitioners themselves) whose extreme hardship suf ficed under that
provision dif fered from the lists of qualifying relatives in the waiver provisions discussed here, but the
statutory language was identical in all other relevant respects (“result in extreme hardship to …”).
[^ 24]  Hardships that the BIA  has held to be “common results” in themselves are insuf ficient for a
finding of extreme hardship. See Matter of Ngai , (PDF)  19 I&N Dec. 245 (BIA  1984). A common
consequence, however , when combined with other factors that alone would also have been
insuf ficient, may meet the extreme hardship standard when considered in the aggregate. For a list of
those common consequences, see Chapter 5, Extreme Hardship Considerations and Factors, Section
B, Common Consequences [ 9 USCIS-PM B.5(B) ].
Chapter 5 - Extreme Hardship Considerations and Factors
A. Totality of the Circumstances
The of ficer must make extreme hardship determinations based on the factors, arguments, and
evidence submitted.[1] Therefore, the of ficer should consider any submission from the applicant
bearing on the extreme hardship determination. The of ficer may also consider factors, arguments, and
evidence relevant to the extreme hardship determination that the applicant has not specifically
presented, such as those addressed in Department of State (DOS) information on country
conditions[2] or other U.S. Government determinations regarding country conditions, including a
country’ s designation for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Of ficers must base their decisions on the
totality of the evidence and circumstances presented.
B. Common Consequences
The common consequences of denying admission, in and of themselves, do not warrant a finding of
extreme hardship.[3] The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) has held that the common
consequences of denying admission include, but are not limited to, the following:
Family separation;
Economic detriment;
Difficulties of readjusting to life in the new country;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2123/2618