Family member of the abuser; or 
Someone acting at the request of the abuser .
If the of ficer can independently corroborate the information from a non-prohibited source, the of ficer
may use the information from the non-prohibited source in the adjudication process.[45]
Once the CPR has submitted a waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty , officers must follow proper
confidentiality protection procedures and update all applicable electronic systems to reflect a safe
address for the CPR.[46]
5. Changing or Supplementing the Filing Basis
The CPR may make a request to change the filing basis in writing to the USCIS of fice that issued the
receipt notice or most recent correspondence. The CPR may also make the request in person at an
interview . In cases involving changes to or from a filing basis involving battery or extreme cruelty ,
however , certain additional procedures must be followed, as noted below . In certain cases, the CPR is
not able to amend the filing basis but, instead, needs to file a new Form I-751 .
Changing the Filing Basis from a Joint Petition to a W aiver Based on Battery or Extreme Cruelty
Upon receipt of a written or in-person request to change the filing basis from a joint petition to a waiver
based on battery or extreme cruelty , USCIS assigns a new receipt number for the waiver and applies
safe address handling procedures.
In addition to the above procedures, if the CPR requests to change the filing basis at an interview , the
interviewing of ficer should conduct the interview and adjudicate the petition after providing the CPR an
opportunity to submit evidence in support of the new filing basis. 
Withdrawing a W aiver Based on Battery or Extreme Cruelty to File a Joint Petition  
As noted above, USCIS provides confidentiality protections under 8 U.S.C. 1367  to CPRs who have
filed a request for a waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty by their spouse or stepparent.[47] A
CPR seeking to change the filing basis of a Form I-751  from a waiver based on battery or extreme
cruelty to a joint petition must withdraw the waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty and file a new
joint Form I-751. USCIS is unable to change the basis of the filing, as the CPR’ s petitioning spouse or
stepparent must file and sign the joint petition with the CPR.
If the CPR chooses to pursue the removal of conditions on residence with the cooperation of the
CPR’ s spouse or stepparent, then the provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1367 will terminate. This is required so
that USCIS can communicate with both the CPR and the petitioning spouse or stepparent and allows
USCIS to rely upon evidence and testimony provided by the petitioning spouse or stepparent in the
adjudication of the joint petition.[48]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1391/2618