If the agent[30] also seeks to act in the capacity of an attorney or accredited representative of the
surety company , the agent must also submit Form G-28.[31]
If the surety company posts bonds through an agent, the agent becomes a co-obligor . This means that
the agent is jointly and severally liable for the bond amount. If the alien breaches the condition of the
bond by receiving public benefits above the threshold, either the surety company or the agent or both
can be held liable for and up to the amount of the bond.
Example
Immigration Bonds, Inc. provides public charge bond services on behalf of Bank B, a Treasury-
certified surety company . When submitting a public charge bond, Immigration Bonds, Inc. must submit
Form I-945  and an original or a true copy (as defined under applicable state law) of the power of
attorney that complies with the state laws governing the jurisdiction in which the power of attorney was
executed. The power of attorney demonstrates that Immigration Bonds, Inc. is authorized to submit
the bond on behalf of Bank B.
By completing the Form I-945 , the agent must sign as a co-obligor on the bond. If Immigration Bonds,
Inc. also acts as Bank B’ s attorney or accredited representative, Immigration Bonds, Inc., would also
have to submit a properly completed Form G-28 . If the public charge bond is accepted, then
Immigration Bonds, Inc. and Bank B become co-obligors on the public charge bond.
If the public charge bond is breached because the alien does not comply with the bond conditions, the
U.S. government may collect from either Immigration Bonds, Inc. or Bank B or both to obtain the full
face value of the public charge bond.
The following table illustrates the dif ferences between the public charge cash and surety bonds.
Differences Between Cash and Surety Bonds
 Cash Bond Surety Bond
Who can post it?Natural person,
including the alien; or
Company or other
entityCertified surety company; or
The certified surety company’ s authorized
agent
The bond is
posted by
submitting what
documents?Form I-945 ,
completed in
accordance with the
form instructions;Form I-945 , completed in accordance with
the form instructions;
If submitted by an authorized agent of an
acceptable surety company: power of
attorney complying with state laws of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2033/2618