Ground of Inadmissibility AppliesExempt or Not
Applicable
INA 212(a)(10)  – Practicing Polygamists, Guardians Required to
Accompany Helpless Persons, International Child Abductors, Unlawful
Voters, and Former Citizens who Renounced Citizenship to Avoid
TaxationX  
4. Treatment of Family Members
The derivative spouse or child(ren) (unmarried and under 21 years of age) of a principal special
immigrant citizen or national from Afghanistan or Iraq may , if otherwise eligible, accompany or follow-
to-join[25] the principal applicant and apply to adjust status under the same immigrant category and
priority date.
Any derivative spouse and children are eligible to adjust status as long as they continue to maintain
the requisite relationship with the principal special immigrant.[26] A surviving spouse or child may also
adjust status as a special immigrant of a deceased principal special immigrant if eligible to receive a
special immigrant visa.[27]
Unique to this special immigrant category , these family members do not count against the numerical
limitations of the relevant program or against the general numerical limitations of the employment-
based fourth preference category (EB-4).[28]
5. Potential for Conversion of Special Immigrant Petition from One Classification to Another
In some cases the underlying petition may have been approved as an Afghan or Iraq translator and
converted to an approval as an Afghanistan or Iraq national who worked for , or on behalf of, the U.S.
government. This conversion allows an applicant to obtain a visa from a program with a larger number
of visas available. The conversion does not af fect adjustment eligibility . The of ficer should ensure that
the application is adjudicated under the correct program.
6. Applicants Admitted as Refugees
To be eligible for adjustment of status as an Afghanistan or Iraq national special immigrant, an alien
must have been either paroled into the United States or admitted as a nonimmigrant.[29] An alien who
last entered the United States as a refugee is not paroled and is admitted as a refugee, not a
nonimmigrant. Thus, an alien admitted as a refugee cannot adjust status under any of the Afghanistan
or Iraq programs as refugees have their own basis for adjusting status.[30]
D. Documentation and Evidence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1727/2618