To suf ficiently demonstrate the ability to write in English, the applicant must write one sentence out of
three sentences in a manner that the of ficer understands. The of ficer dictates the sentence to the
applicant using standardized writing test forms. An applicant must not abbreviate any of the words.
Once the applicant writes one of the three sentences in a manner that the of ficer understands, the
officer stops the writing test.
An applicant does not fail the writing test because of spelling, capitalization, or punctuation errors,
unless the errors interfere with the meaning of the sentence and the of ficer is unable to understand the
sentence.
Passing the Writing T est
The applicant passes the writing test if the applicant is able to convey the meaning of one of the three
sentences to the of ficer. The applicant’ s writing sample may have the following:
Some grammatical, spelling, or capitalization errors; 
Omitted short words that do not interfere with meaning; or 
Numbers spelled out or written as digits. 
Failing the Writing T est
An applicant fails the writing test if he or she makes errors to a degree that the applicant does not
convey the meaning of the sentence and the of ficer is not able to understand the sentence. 
An applicant fails the writing test if he or she writes the following: 
A different sentence or words;  
An abbreviation for a dictated word;[10] 
Nothing or only one or two isolated words; or  
A sentence that is completely illegible. 
E. Civics Portion of the T est
1. Civics T est
A naturalization applicant must demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of
the history , the principles, and the form of government of the United States (civics).[11] To suf ficiently
demonstrate knowledge of civics, an applicant for naturalization must pass a civics test by answering
a certain number of questions correctly . USCIS is committed to administering a test that is an
instrument of civic learning and fosters civic assimilation as part of the test preparation process.
A USCIS system randomly selects the test questions, and an of ficer administers the test orally .[12] The
standardized civics test contains 10 questions. The of ficer stops the test when the applicant correctly
answers the minimum number of questions required to pass the test.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2369/2618