While many aliens may demonstrate their income through their employment history and associated
salaries, some aliens may have periods of unemployment. USCIS may consider the alien’ s
employment history , in the totality of the circumstances, in the context of assessing the alien’ s
education and skills, as well as assets, resources and financial status. However , like other factors and
considerations, the fact that an alien has experienced or is experiencing a period of unemployment is
not alone suf ficient to conclude that an alien will become a public charge in the future. Also, a history
of prior employment may be helpful to determine that the alien has the education or skills that make it
likely that they will again be employed and again earn income.
If deemed necessary in the totality of the circumstances assessment, a USCIS of ficer may request
evidence of expected employment, including job of fers with estimated salary .[5]
1. Potential Future Receipt of Public Cash Assistance for Income Maintenance or Long-term
Institutionalization at Government Expense
Although USCIS expects this to be rare, it is possible that an applicant could, on their own behalf, be
certified for , or approved to receive in the future, public cash assistance for income maintenance or
long-term institutionalization at government expense.
While such certification or approval would not constitute receipt of such benefits under the regulations,
[6] evidence of such certification or approval could indicate the probability of future receipt, and be
considered by USCIS as probative of whether the applicant is likely to become a public charge at any
time in the future.[7] As such, USCIS considers this certification or approval for future receipt, if any , in
the totality of the circumstances.
2. Other Relevant Information
The totality of the circumstances analysis includes all information or evidence in the record before the
officer that is relevant to a public charge inadmissibility determination, including forms and evidence
previously submitted to USCIS.
For example, it is possible that some applicants for adjustment of status may have previously
requested and received a fee waiver for a prior immigration benefit. In such a case, the of ficer
considers this evidence in the totality of circumstances, such as by taking into account the recency
and amount of the fee waiver , as well as the grounds for eligibility .[8]
As a general matter , the most common eligibility criteria for a fee waiver are receipt of a means-tested
benefit or household income below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines  (FPG), both of
which would already be evident in the applicant’ s responses to questions on Form I-485 . If the fee
waiver were requested on the basis of financial hardship, then the of ficer could request additional
evidence on the nature and recency of such hardship in the totality of the circumstances. Note that8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2020/2618