The visa was
first available
for…And the alien
files for
adjustment of
status…Then the date used to calculate CSP A age is…
becoming
unavailableavailable for 1
yearthe 1-year period the visa was next available. The alien
who does not establish extraordinary circumstances, as
described above, is not considered a child for CSP A
purposes if the alien seeks to acquire LPR status after the
visa was next continuously available for 1 year; or
The day when the visa first became available if the alien:
Demonstrates extraordinary circumstances for not
seeking to acquire LPR status within the 1-year
period the visa was next continuously available; and
Demonstrates extraordinary circumstances for not
seeking to acquire LPR status within the period the
visa was first available.
More than 1
year before
becoming
unavailableAfter the visa
next becomes
availableThe day when the visa first became available if the alien
demonstrates extraordinary circumstances for not seeking to
acquire LPR status within the 1-year period the visa was first
available. Otherwise, the alien who does not establish
extraordinary circumstances for not seeking to acquire LPR
status within the 1-year period the visa was first available is not
considered a child for CSP A purposes.
4. Other Remedies for Certain Aliens Who Failed to Seek to Acquire
Motions to Reopen Following Matter of O. V azquez
Denials that were based on the failure to seek to acquire and issued prior to the decision in Matter of
O. Vazquez[66] were proper based on the law in ef fect at the time of the decision. However , USCIS
considers untimely motions to reopen for denials issued after the Matter of O. V azquez  precedent
(June 8, 2012), but only if the denial was based solely on the alien’ s failure to seek to acquire LPR
status within 1 year .
Aliens must file the Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ) with the proper fee and should present
his or her claim that the finding in Matter of O. V azquez  constitutes changed circumstances justifying
the reopening of the adjustment application. Of ficers consider new evidence of extraordinary
circumstances submitted with the motion to reopen, consistent with the guidance in this section.
Certain Aliens Who Did Not Have an Adjustment Application Pending on the Effective Date8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1491/2618