than 60 days after the student’ s program end date.[22] A student must complete all practical training
within a 14-month period following the completion of study .[23]
An F-1 student may be authorized up to 12 months of practical training, and becomes eligible for
another 12 months of practical training when they change to a higher educational level.[24] If an F-1
student applies for post-completion OPT  at the same educational level in which the student had pre-
completion OPT , the amount of time approved for pre-completion OPT  is deducted from the post-
completion OPT  authorized period.
Overtime and periods of unemployment are not taken into consideration when calculating the amount
of OPT  used. For example, if an F-1 student had already received 1 year of part-time pre-completion
OPT during the same degree program, the total remaining OPT  time still available would be reduced
by 6 months, half of the previously authorized year .
An F-1 student who has completed an authorized period of post-completion OPT  may remain in F-1
status for 60 days beyond the EAD expiration date. During this grace period, an F-1 student may
prepare for departure from the United States.[25] The F-1 student and any dependents must depart
the United States by the end of the grace period if they do not either change the student’ s
nonimmigrant status, or transfer to an ICE SEVP-certified school.[26]
An F-1 student may not accrue an aggregate of more than 90 days of unemployment during the period
of post-completion OPT .
3. STEM OPT Extension
An F-1 student who meets certain qualifications may qualify for a 24-month STEM OPT  extension.[27]
An F-1 student approved for STEM OPT  may not accrue an aggregate of more than 150 days of
unemployment during a total OPT  period. This includes the post-completion OPT  period and
subsequent 24-month STEM OPT  extension period.[28]
F-1 students with a bachelor ’s degree, master ’s degree, or doctorate degree in a field with a
Department of Education’ s Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) code that appears on the
DHS STEM Designated Degree Program List (PDF)[29] may apply to USCIS for authorization for a 24-
month OPT  extension (STEM OPT) by properly filing a Form I-765 , after obtaining the DSO’ s
recommendation. This 24-month extension can only be granted once per qualifying degree. If the F-1
students do not fully use the extension, they are ineligible for any subsequent STEM extension.
F-1 students may submit a properly filed Form I-765  up to 90 days before the expiration of the F-1
student’ s current post-completion OPT  EAD and no more than 60 days after their DSO enters the
STEM OPT  recommendation into SEVIS. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 397/2618