Classes of Aliens and Corresponding Codes of Admission
Alien Code of Admission
Asylee (Principal) AS6
Spouse of a Principal Asylee (AS6) AS7
Child of a Principal Asylee (AS6) AS8
The of ficer must ensure that the alien's new Class of Admission (COA) information is updated in the
appropriate electronic systems, so that the alien receives a Permanent Resident Card. After
completion, cases are routed to the National Records Center .
2. Denials
If an alien fails to establish eligibility for adjustment under this section, the application is denied. The
officer must provide the alien with a written notice specifying the reasons for denial in clear language
the alien can understand. While there is no appeal from denial of this type of case,[7] a motion to
reopen may be considered if timely filed within 30 days of the date of the denial and received before
removal proceedings are instituted.
An alien may also renew the application for adjustment while in removal proceedings before an
immigration judge.[8] If a motion includes a waiver , and the motion to reopen is granted, the of ficer
must adjudicate the waiver before a final decision can be made on the adjustment of status
application.
If an of ficer denies the adjustment of status application due to ineligibility for adjustment of status,
improper filing, or abandonment of the application, the alien should not be placed into removal
proceedings and the alien still keeps his or her asylum status. In certain instances, if the of ficer denies
the adjustment of status application because the alien is inadmissible, the alien may be placed into
removal proceedings.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 209.2(e) .
[^ 2] If evidence demonstrates an articulable ground for possible termination of asylum status, such as
a showing of fraud in the alien's application such that he or she was not eligible for asylum at the time
it was granted, or that the alien no longer meets the definition of a refugee under INA 101(a)(42) , the
officer should refer the file for further review and action on potential termination of asylum status. For
more information on the grounds of asylum termination and procedures, see 8 CFR 208.24  and
Chapter 6, Termination of Status and Notice to Appear Considerations [ 7 USCIS-PM M.6 ].8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1828/2618