Instances where a timely adjustment application was rejected by USCIS as improperly filed and
was returned to the alien for corrections where the deficiency was corrected and the alien re-filed
within a reasonable period thereafter;
Death or serious illness or incapacity of the alien’ s attorney or legal representative or a member
of the alien’ s immediate family; and
Ineffective assistance of counsel, when certain requirements are met.
1. Extraordinary Circumstances Due to Ineffective Assistance of Counsel
An alien may only establish extraordinary circumstances due to inef fective assistance of counsel (the
alien’ s legal representative or attorney) if the alien completes the following:
The alien must submit an af fidavit explaining, in detail, the agreement that was entered into with
counsel regarding the actions to be taken and what information, if any , counsel provided to the
alien regarding such actions;
The alien must demonstrate that the alien has made a good faith ef fort to inform counsel whose
integrity or competence is being questioned of the allegations brought against counsel and that
counsel has been given an opportunity to respond; and
The alien must indicate whether a complaint has been filed with the appropriate disciplinary
authorities about any violations of counsel’ s legal or ethical responsibilities, or explain why a
complaint has not been filed.
2. Evaluating Extraordinary Circumstances
When considering a claim of extraordinary circumstances, the of ficer should weigh the totality of the
circumstances and the connection between the circumstances presented and the failure to meet the
sought to acquire requirement within the 1-year period, as well as the reasonableness of the delay . In
order to warrant a favorable exercise of discretion, the circumstances must truly be extraordinary and
beyond the alien’ s control.
USCIS does not consider commonplace circumstances, such as financial dif ficulty , minor medical
conditions, and circumstances within the alien’ s control (such as when to seek counsel or begin
preparing the application package), to be extraordinary . Furthermore, the fact of being or having been
a child is common to all aliens seeking protection under the CSP A and does not constitute
extraordinary circumstances.
When an alien seeks to acquire after the 1-year period of visa availability has elapsed and does not
provide an explanation or evidence of extraordinary circumstances, the of ficer issues a Notice of Intent
to Deny (NOID) to give the alien an opportunity to rebut the apparent ineligibility .
3. Age Calculation for Aliens with Extraordinary Circumstances8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1487/2618