3. Bona Fide Determination Employment Authorization Document Issuance
Once USCIS has determined that a petitioner present in the United States has a bona fide petition and
merits a favorable exercise of discretion, and therefore may receive a BFD EAD, USCIS issues a
notice to inform the petitioner of the decision.
Such petitioners who have already filed a Form I-765  under either of the EAD classifications noted
above then receive an EAD and a grant of deferred action valid for 4 years. Petitioners who must file a
new Form I-765 after receiving the BFD notice from USCIS receive employment authorization and
deferred action valid for 4 years once USCIS finishes adjudicating the Form I-765.
4. Prima Facie Case for Approval
Where USCIS issues a BFD EAD to a petitioner , the petitioner is also considered to have established
a prima facie case for approval within the meaning of INA 237(d)(1) . The term “prima facie” refers to a
petition appearing suf ficient on its face.
The evaluation performed by USCIS to determine whether a petition is bona fide and whether a
petitioner receives a BFD EAD is a more complex evaluation than looking at the petition on its face
alone. The BFD process satisfies the prima facie standard that U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) previously requested in specific circumstances[27] since the steps taken to
determine whether a petition is bona fide and a petitioner receives a BFD EAD rely on the initial
evidence submitted with a petition for U nonimmigrant status, as well as the results of background
checks.
5. Waiting List Adjudication for Petitioners Not Issued a Bona Fide Determination Employment
Authorization Document
Once an of ficer has determined that a petitioner will not receive a BFD EAD, the of ficer reviews the
complete filing and identifies any deficiencies or concerns that need to be addressed for waiting list
adjudication. The of ficer then issues an RFE or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID), which includes:[28]
A notice explaining that USCIS will not be issuing a BFD EAD; and
An RFE to address any deficiencies or concerns associated with waiting list adjudication.
If USCIS determines that a petitioner will not receive a BFD EAD, but can be placed on the waiting list,
that decision generally does not af fect the timeline in which the petition for U nonimmigrant status is
adjudicated for final determination of U nonimmigrant status. If USCIS determines that a petitioner will
not receive a BFD EAD and cannot be placed on the waiting list, USCIS will deny the petition.
6. Request to Renew Bona Fide Determination Employment Authorization Document and
Deferred Action8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 736/2618