If DOS notifies USCIS that it does not intend to revoke the passport or cancel the CRBA, USCIS
approves the Application for Certificate of Citizenship.[64] However , in cases with unusual or complex
circumstances, USCIS may further consult with DOS.
If USCIS has evidence indicating that a U.S. passport submitted as evidence was obtained or issued
illegally , fraudulently , or erroneously , and the passport was valid at the time of filing, but is expired at
the time of adjudication, the of ficer should review the case with USCIS counsel and DOS before
adjudicating.[65]
If DOS revokes the U.S. passport or cancels the CRBA, the of ficer denies the application in cases
where the applicant does not otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for issuance of a Certificate of
Citizenship.
4. Photographs and Signature
USCIS may require the applicant (person seeking the Certificate of Citizenship), regardless of age, to
appear at a local Application Support Center (ASC)[66] for photograph and signature submission.[67] A
parent or legal guardian may sign for a child under the age of 14.[68] The parent or legal guardian of
the person for whom the Certificate of Citizenship is sought does not submit any photographs of
themself in connection with the Form N-600.
USCIS does not submit information collected in connection with Form N-600 to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) for a background check.
Photograph Submission Outside the United States
A person seeking a Certificate of Citizenship who is residing outside the United States only needs to
submit two passport-style photographs with the properly submitted application. USCIS does not
schedule overseas applicants for an ASC appointment. USCIS coordinates with military service
members who are stationed outside of the United States, if necessary , to secure photographs.
Failure to Appear for the ASC Appointment  
USCIS may consider the Form N-600 abandoned in cases where the person seeking a Certificate of
Citizenship fails to appear for the ASC appointment, unless, by the appointment time, USCIS receives
a change of address or rescheduling request that USCIS concludes warrants excusing the failure to
appear .[69]
If USCIS denies the application due to abandonment, the person eligible for the Certificate of
Citizenship, or the parent or legal guardian of the person eligible for the Certificate of Citizenship, or
the parent or legal guardian who filed on behalf of a child seeking a Certificate of Citizenship, may
submit a motion to reopen by filing a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ).[70]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2494/2618