Generally , USCIS does not charge a fee for the filing of certain victim-based and humanitarian benefit
requests, including Form I-918  and Form I-918, Supplement A.[29] Consequently , petitioners who
receive BFD EADs do not need to submit a filing fee for the initial Form I-765  associated with the BFD
EAD. Petitioners who choose to renew their BFD EADs may do so under existing procedures without
a fee.[30] Once a BFD EAD is renewed, the accompanying grant of deferred action is also renewed.
TVPRA  2008 requires USCIS to permit petitioners for U nonimmigrant status to apply for fee waivers
for “any fees associated with filing an application for relief through final adjudication of the adjustment
of status.”[31] USCIS has interpreted this to mean that, in addition to the main benefit request,
applicants and petitioners must have the opportunity to request a fee waiver for any form associated
with the main benefit, including applications for waivers of inadmissibility or employment authorization.
Principal petitioners and qualifying family members who are seeking to renew a BFD EAD must either
submit a filing fee or submit a Request for Fee W aiver ( Form I-912 ).
An initial BFD EAD grant does not guarantee future renewals. Principal petitioners and qualifying
family members are evaluated independently for each EAD and deferred action renewal to ensure that
the BFD EAD and grant of deferred action are still warranted as a matter of discretion.
>Additionally , USCIS may identify principal petitioners and qualifying family members who pose a risk
to national security and public safety during the validity period of the BFD EAD and deferred action,
until final adjudication of U nonimmigrant status.
At any point during the validity period, USCIS has the right to revoke employment authorization or
terminate deferred action if USCIS determines a national security or public safety concern is present, if
USCIS determines the BFD EAD and deferred action  is no longer warranted, the Form I-918
Supplement B law enforcement certification is withdrawn, or USCIS determines the prior BFD EAD
was issued in error .[32]
If USCIS determines that adverse information may impact a principal petitioner ’s ability to maintain a
BFD EAD and deferred action, USCIS will initiate a waiting list review for the principal petition.
Similarly , if USCIS determines that adverse information may impact a qualifying family member ’s
ability to maintain a BFD EAD and deferred action, USCIS will conduct a full adjudication of the
qualifying family member ’s petition as described above to determine whether the qualifying family
member can maintain a BFD EAD and deferred action.
An initial grant or renewal of a BFD EAD and deferred action does not guarantee that USCIS will
approve the principal petitioner or his or her qualifying family members for U nonimmigrant status.
Generally , USCIS adjudicates petitions for U nonimmigrant status in the order in which they are
received, subject to limited exceptions. When the principal petitioner ’s filing is next in line for final
adjudication, an of ficer assesses eligibility requirements for U nonimmigrant status. This adjudication
does not include consideration of prior grants or renewals of BFD EAD or deferred action.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 737/2618