Reason Explana tion
documentation of income or additional support.
The requestor ’s filing status in the tax returns or
transcript (for example, married filing jointly , single,
head of household) is inconsistent with the marital
status declared on the fee waiver request, the
immigration benefit forms, or supporting documents,
and the requestor does not provide an explanation or
evidence regarding the inconsistency .
The requestor ’s tax return or transcript indicates that
the requestor may be claimed by another person, but
the requestor does not provide income information for
the tax filer .
Lack of income
documentation[37]Lack of documentation of income (such as tax return or
transcript, W -2, or pay statements) and additional income
or financial support for the requestor and each household
member identified in the fee waiver request or of the
person providing additional income, as appropriate.
Requestors may , however , file another fee waiver request with the required documentation to establish
eligibility . An applicant may also refile the benefit request with the proper fees for USCIS to process
the request. The filing of a fee waiver does not toll or pause any other applicable deadlines, such as
the deadline for filing an appeal or motion. Therefore, if a fee waiver request is rejected, the requestor
must endeavor to re-file within the applicable timeframe. USCIS uses the postmark date of a filing to
determine which form version and fees are correct but uses the receipt date for purposes of any
regulatory or statutory filing deadlines.[38]
G. Fee Exemptions
Aside from fee exemptions specifically listed in regulations, the USCIS Director may provide an
exemption for any fee required.[39] The Director must determine that such action would be in the
public interest and the action is consistent with the applicable law .
Fee exemptions are distinct from fee waivers in that exemptions apply automatically and do not
require the requestor to establish eligibility . A benefit requestor may not individually request a fee
exemption as they would a fee waiver . The Director may also provide temporary fee exemptions as
necessary . A request for a USCIS Director ’s fee exemption must be submitted to the Of fice of the
Director for clearance.
All current fee exemptions can be found in the Fee Schedule ( Form G-1055 ).8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 239/2618