Criterion 5: The person's original scientific, scholarly , artistic, athletic, or business-related
contributions of major significance in the field.[27]
First, USCIS determines whether the person has made original contributions in the field.
Second, USCIS determines whether the original contributions are of major significance to the field.
Examples of relevant evidence include, but are not limited to:
Published materials about the significance of the person’ s original work;
Testimonials, letters, and af fidavits about the person’ s original work;
Documentation that the person’ s original work was cited at a level indicative of major
significance in the field; and
Patents or licenses deriving from the person’ s work or evidence of commercial use of the
person’ s work.
Considerations:
Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person’ s original work constitutes major ,
significant contributions to the field.
Evidence that the person’ s work was funded, patented, or published, while potentially demonstrating
the work’ s originality , will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is of major significance
to the field.
For example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from
others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others’  work in
that field, may be probative of the significance of the person’ s contributions to the field of endeavor .
Similarly , evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant
attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person’ s original contribution to
the field. If a patent remains pending, USCIS generally requires additional supporting evidence to
document the originality of the person’ s contribution, such as detailed reference letters.
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person’ s
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed
significance.
Submitted letters should specifically describe the person’ s contribution and its significance to the
field and should also set forth the basis of the writer ’s knowledge and expertise.
 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1155/2618