An alien’ s membership or af filiation is meaningful if the evidence shows that the alien is aware of the
political aspects of the proscribed organization during the time of their membership or if the evidence
shows that the alien engaged in party activities to a degree that substantially supports an inference of
his or her awareness of the party’ s political aspect.[45] Accordingly , an alien's knowledge or awareness
of a communist or totalitarian party’ s political nature is suf ficient to establish that an alien’ s
membership is meaningful.[46]
C. Adjudication
1. Evidence
A finding of inadmissibility under INA  212(a)(3)(D) must be based on evidence, such as oral testimony ,
written testimony , or any other documentation containing information about the applicant’ s current or
prior membership in or af filiation with the Communist or any other totalitarian party . Some USCIS
forms, including the Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ),
require applicants to list their memberships in organizations and parties.
Membership or af filiation is a question of fact for the of ficer to determine. If the facts and evidence
available would allow a reasonable person to conclude that the applicant is a member or an af filiate of
the Communist or any other totalitarian party , then the applicant must establish that he or she qualifies
for one of the exceptions or the waiver .
If an applicant misrepresents information regarding membership or af filiation in answering questions
on Form I-485, the applicant could also be found inadmissible under INA  212(a)(6)(C)(i).[47]
2. Burden of Proof
The burden of proof to establish admissibility when seeking an immigration benefit is always on the
applicant.[48] The burden never shifts to the Government at any time during adjudication.[49]
To determine whether an applicant is inadmissible based on his or her membership in or af filiation with
the Communist or any other totalitarian party , there must be suf ficient evidence that would lead a
reasonable person to find that he or she is or was a member of or af filiated with a proscribed group.
[50] If there is evidence that would permit a reasonable person to conclude that the applicant is
inadmissible under this ground, then the of ficer should find that the applicant has not successfully met
the burden of proof. If there is any adverse, third-party information in the record, then the of ficer
conducting an interview is generally expected to confront the applicant with the information and
resolve the issue at the time of the interview .
If an of ficer is basing a decision in whole or in part on information of which the applicant is unaware or
could not reasonably be expected to be aware, and the applicant was not confronted with that
information and given an opportunity to respond during an interview , the of ficer must issue a Notice of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1957/2618