In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures.
See more
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 37 - Nonimmigrants Intending to Adjust Status (K and V Classifications) (External)
Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole
Part A - Protection and Parole Policies and Procedures
Part B - V ictims of Trafficking
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
Human traf ficking (also known as traf ficking in persons) involves the exploitation of persons in order to
compel labor , services, or commercial sex acts.[1] The Trafficking V ictims Protection Act (TVP A), part
of the V ictims of Trafficking and V iolence Protection Act of 2000, was enacted to strengthen the ability
of law enforcement agencies to investigate and prosecute traf ficking in persons, while of fering
protections to victims of such traf ficking, including temporary protections from removal, access to
certain federal and state public benefits and services, and the ability to apply for T nonimmigrant
status (commonly referred to as the T visa).
T nonimmigrant status allows eligible victims of a severe form of traf ficking in persons[2] to remain in
the United States on a temporary basis, receive employment authorization, and qualify for benefits
and services to the same extent as a refugee.[3] It also allows victims to apply for T nonimmigrant
status for certain family members.
B. Background8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 642/2618