Company A filed a permanent labor certification application with DOL  for a computer systems analyst,
which is ultimately approved. Company A subsequently signs a contract with Company B for the
provision of computer systems analyst services to Company A by Company B, ef fectively outsourcing
the computer systems analyst duties that were to be performed by the beneficiary to Company B.
A valid successor-in-interest relationship between Company A and Company B does not exist in this
instance. The contractual agreement between the companies did not result in the transfer of the
ownership of Company A to Company B in a manner so that its business interests are carried on and
controlled in the same manner by Company B.
Conversely , in the example above, Company A sells its computer software development unit to
Company B and the computer systems analyst position specified within the approved permanent labor
certification is located within that business unit. A valid successor-in-interest relationship may exist
between Company A and Company B if the sale of the business unit results in the transfer of the
ownership of relevant assets and other interests of the business unit of Company A to Company B in a
manner so that its business interests are carried on and controlled in the same manner by Company
B.
Transfers in Whole or Part
The transfer of the ownership of the predecessor to the successor may occur through a merger ,
acquisition, or reorganization. These business transactions may involve business entities with dif fering
organizational structures, such as:
General partnerships;
Limited partnerships;
Limited liability partnerships (LLPs);
Limited liability companies (LLCs); or
Corporations (including subchapter C and S corporations).
The structure of business transactions resulting in the transfer of ownership of the predecessor to the
successor varies from case to case. Frequently , the acquiring entity (successor) purchases a discrete
operational division or unit, resulting in the sale of only a part of the predecessor (often structured to
only transfer ownership of the assets or other interests comprising the division or unit to the successor
without transferring ownership of the predecessor entity itself).
For successor-in-interest petition purposes, the operational division or unit of the business entity that
is being transferred to the successor must be a clearly defined unit within the predecessor entity , and
that unit must be transferred as a whole to the successor , with the exception of certain unrelated
liabilities such as those previously outlined.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1099/2618