Copies of the Employer ’s Quarterly Federal Tax Return (IRS Form 941) listing the branch of fice
as the employer;
Copies of the W age and Tax Statement (IRS Form W -2) listing the branch of fice as the
employer; or
Copies of a lease for of fice space in the United States.
If the petitioner seeks to transfer the beneficiary from a foreign branch of fice, the petition should
include comparable evidence to establish that the foreign employer is a branch of fice of a qualifying
entity .
B. Doing Business
Doing business is the regular , systematic, and continuous provision of goods or services by a
qualifying organization. Therefore, the mere presence of an organization’ s office or agent in the United
States does not, in and of itself, constitute doing business.[14] Both the U.S. employer and at least one
qualifying organization abroad must be doing business for the entire duration of the beneficiary’ s stay
in the United States as an intracompany transferee.[15] Doing business requires activity , not just
registration of the business or of fice or presence of an agent.[16]
An exception exists for petitioners filing for an L-1 beneficiary coming to be employed by a U.S.
organization that has been doing business for less than 1 year . Such a petitioner does not have to be
actively engaged in doing business at the time of filing the petition. Instead, the petitioner must submit
evidence that it has secured suf ficient physical premises to house the new of fice, and the intended
U.S. operation, within 1 year of the approval of the petition, will support an executive, managerial, or
specialized knowledge position.[17]
1. Foreign Employer Must Continue to Do Business
There must be a qualifying organization abroad that continues to engage in the regular , systematic,
and continuous provision of goods and services for the entire duration of the L-1 beneficiary’ s stay for
a qualifying relationship to exist.[18]
The presence of a dormant corporation, an agent, or a holding company abroad is not suf ficient to
establish a qualifying relationship for L-1 purposes. However , the organization does not have to be the
same organization that employed the beneficiary abroad.
2. Determination of Doing Business
While the petitioner must show the organization is involved in the continuous provision of goods or
services, there is no statutory or regulatory minimum level of business activity that must be conducted
for the U.S. and the foreign organizations to meet this eligibility requirement.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 494/2618