The petitioner documents the beneficiary’ s employment or research experience is with leading
institutions in the field (such as U.S. universities that have been recognized as having high or
very high research activity by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education,[29]
foreign universities with comparably high research activity , or a university that is highly regarded
according to a widely recognized metric such as the QS W orld University Rankings[30]). Such
employment or experience can be a positive factor toward demonstrating that the beneficiary
enjoys international recognition as outstanding;
The record establishes that the beneficiary has received unsolicited invitations to speak or
present research at nationally or internationally recognized conferences in the field. Although
such a role for the conference may not rise to the level of a leading or critical role, this type of
invitation is generally indicative of a person’ s recognition for achievements in the field; and
The record establishes that the beneficiary is named as an investigator , scientist, or researcher
on a peer-reviewed and competitively funded U.S. government grant or stipend for science,
technology , engineering, and mathematics (STEM) research. This type of evidence can be a
positive factor indicating a beneficiary is recognized internationally as outstanding in the
beneficiary’ s field.
In all cases, the petitioner must provide suf ficient context regarding the above evidence and
considerations to demonstrate that the evidence meets the relevant criteria and to establish the
beneficiary’ s international recognition in the totality of the circumstances. This means that the
petitioner must explain the significance of the submitted evidence, and how it demonstrates that the
beneficiary is internationally recognized as outstanding.
When requesting additional evidence or denying a petition, if the of ficer determines that the petitioner
has failed to demonstrate eligibility , the of ficer should not merely make general assertions regarding
this failure. Rather , the of ficer must articulate the specific reasons as to why the of ficer concludes that
the petitioner , by a preponderance of the evidence, has not demonstrated that the beneficiary is an
outstanding professor or researcher .[31] As with all adjudications, if an of ficer believes that the facts
stated in the petition are not true, and can articulate why in the denial, then the of ficer denies the
petition and explains the reasons in the written denial.[32]
C. Qualifying Status of Employer
Although a permanent labor certification is not required for the outstanding professor or researcher
classification, the petitioner must provide an of fer of employment as initial evidence in support of the
petition.[33] The of fer of employment must be in the form of a letter from the prospective U.S. employer
to the beneficiary and the of fer must state that the employer is of fering the beneficiary employment in
a tenured or tenure-track teaching position or a permanent research position in the beneficiary’ s
academic field.[34] In addition, the petitioner must demonstrate that it has the ability to pay the
beneficiary’ s salary .[35]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1178/2618