A corporation in the United States that is filing on behalf of the beneficiary .[21]
The petitioner should submit all required evidence[22] in accordance with the form instructions.[23] The
officer must carefully evaluate the evidence submitted to determine whether there is suf ficient
evidence to demonstrate that there is reason to believe that the beneficiary was fathered by a U.S.
citizen.[24] USCIS may ask the claimed father and the beneficiary to submit DNA  tests.
2. Adjudication
Expeditious Processing
To the extent possible, for humanitarian reasons, of ficers should expedite the processing of petitions
for Amerasian classification.
Two-Step Process
USCIS generally adjudicates Amerasian petitions in two steps, as outlined in the table below .
Two-Step Amerasian Petition Process
Step USCIS Determination
Step OneThe of ficer determines whether there is reason to believe that the beneficiary
was born in a qualifying country within a time period that meets eligibility
requirements and was fathered by a U.S. citizen.
Step Two The of ficer determines if the beneficiary has met other requirements.
USCIS generally conducts a two-step adjudication so that the petitioner does not have to meet the
more complex requirements relating to the second step unless USCIS finds the beneficiary to be
tentatively eligible in the first step.
However , if all required evidence[25] is available when the petition is initially filed, the petitioner may
submit it at that time. In that case, USCIS considers all evidence at the same time.
First Step Processing
In the first step, the of ficer examines the required evidence for preliminary processing submitted by the
petitioner ,[26] including evidence of the beneficiary’ s date and place of birth and evidence that the
beneficiary was fathered by a U.S. citizen.
If the first step is completed in a satisfactory manner , the of ficer sends the petitioner a notification,
accompanied by a blank Form I-134  (if the sponsor has not already submitted one). If the sponsor has
not already appeared for a biometrics capture, USCIS also sends the sponsor a notice of a biometrics
appointment.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1873/2618