the petition in order to control, coerce, and intimidate their family members. This allows abusive U.S.
citizens and LPRs to perpetuate their abuse, and their family members may be afraid to report them to
law enforcement or leave the abusive situation, as they may be dependent on the U.S. citizen or LPR
to obtain or maintain their immigration status.
With the passage of V AWA, Congress created a path for victims of domestic violence and abuse to
independently petition for themselves, or self-petition, for immigrant classification. The purpose of the
immigration amendments in V AWA was to give aliens who have been abused by their U.S. citizen or
LPR relative the opportunity to independently seek immigrant classification without the abuser ’s
participation or knowledge. Allowing victims to self-petition means that they are no longer dependent
on their abusive family member to obtain immigration status, thereby removing at least one barrier to
ending the abuse.
Legislative History
VAWA was enacted into law as Section IV of the V iolent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of
1994.[4] Since its passage in 1994, there have been three reauthorizations of the statute (in 2000,
2005, and 2013), all of which expanded and added new protections for V AWA self-petitioners.[5]
The table below provides a summary of key provisions related to self-petitions in V AWA and its
subsequent reauthorizations.
Key Provisions of V AWA and Subsequent Reauthorizations
Laws Key Provisions for V AWA Self-Petitions
Violent Crime Control and Law
Enforcement Act of 1994[6]
(The V AWA provisions of this law are
known as the “V iolence Against
Women Act of 1994” or V AWA 1994)Created self-petitioning provisions for abused
spouses and children of U.S. citizens and LPRs
Established the “any credible evidence” standard
Victims of Trafficking and V iolence
Protection Act of 2000 (V AWA 2000)[7] Removed the extreme hardship eligibility requirement
Removed the requirement that self-petitioners be
married to the abuser at the time of filing
Allowed continued eligibility in certain circumstances
despite the death of the U.S. citizen, termination of
the marriage, or loss of the abuser ’s U.S. citizenship
or LPR status
Created a definition for “intended spouse” and added
provisions for self-petitioners whose marriage was8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 749/2618