The actual employer of the beneficiary;
The representative of both the employer and the beneficiary; or
A person or entity authorized by the employer to act for , or in place of, the employer as its agent.
[1]
O beneficiaries may not petition for themselves.[2] However , a separate legal entity owned by the
beneficiary , such as a corporation or limited liability company , may file the petition on their behalf.
B. Petitioner Obligations
In the case of an O-1 or O-2 beneficiary whose employment terminates for reasons other than
voluntary resignation, the employer whose of fer of employment formed the basis of such
nonimmigrant status and the petitioner (if dif ferent from the employer) are jointly and severally liable
for the reasonable cost of return transportation of the beneficiary to his or her last place of residence
prior to his or her entry into the United States.[3]
A petitioner must immediately notify USCIS of any changes in the terms and conditions of employment
of a beneficiary that may af fect eligibility under INA 101(a)(15)(O)  and 8 CFR 214.2(o) . The petitioner
should file an amended petition when the petitioner continues to employ the beneficiary . If the
petitioner no longer employs the beneficiary , the petitioner must send a letter explaining the change(s)
to the USCIS of fice that approved the petition.[4]
C. Agents
A U.S. agent[5] may file a petition in cases involving workers who are traditionally self-employed or
workers who use agents to arrange short-term employment on their behalf with numerous employers,
and in cases where a foreign employer authorizes the agent to act in its behalf. A U.S. agent may be:
The actual employer of the beneficiary;
The representative of both the employer and the beneficiary; or
A person or entity authorized by the employer to act for , or in place of, the employer as its agent.
[6]
A petition filed by an agent is subject to several conditions. A petition involving multiple employers may
be filed by a person or company in business as an agent that acts as an agent for both the employers
and the beneficiary , if:
The supporting documentation includes a complete itinerary of the event or events;
The itinerary specifies the dates of each service or engagement, the names and addresses of
the actual employers, and the names and addresses of the establishments, venues, or locations
where the services will be performed;
The contracts between the employers and the beneficiary are submitted; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 530/2618