1. Position Focused, Not Employee Focused
The full-time employment criterion focuses on the position, not the employee. Accordingly , the fact
that the position may be filled by more than one employee does not exclude the position from
consideration as full-time employment. For example, the positions described in the preceding
paragraph would not be excluded from being considered full-time employment if the general laborers
needed to fill the positions varied from day-to-day or week-to-week as long as the need for the
positions remain constant. 
2. Within a Reasonable T ime Standard
A petitioner may demonstrate that jobs will be created within a reasonable period of time after
adjudication of the Form I-829  petition.[8] This permits a degree of flexibility to account for the realities
and unpredictability of starting a business venture, but it is not an open-ended allowance. The
business plan submitted with the Form I-526  immigrant petition must establish a likelihood of job
creation within the next 2 years,[9] demonstrating an expectation that EB-5 projects will generally
create jobs within such a timeframe. 
USCIS may determine, based upon a totality of the circumstances, that a lengthier timeframe is
reasonable. USCIS has latitude under the law to request additional evidence concerning those
circumstances. Because 2 years is the expected baseline period in which job creation will take place,
jobs that will be created within a year of the 2-year anniversary of the immigrant investor ’s admission
as a conditional permanent resident or adjustment to conditional permanent resident may generally be
considered to be created within a reasonable period of time. 
Jobs projected to be created more than 3 years after the immigrant investor ’s admission in, or
adjustment to, conditional permanent resident status usually will not be considered to be created
within a reasonable time unless extreme circumstances [10] are presented.
Not all of the goals of capital investment and job creation need to be fully realized before the
conditions on the immigrant investor ’s status have been removed. The investor must establish that it is
more likely than not that the investor is in substantial compliance with the capital requirements and
that the jobs will be created within a reasonable time.
C. Material Change
USCIS recognizes the process of carrying out a business plan and creating jobs depends on a wide
array of variables of which an investor may not have any control. In order to provide flexibility to meet
the realities of the business world, USCIS permits an immigrant investor who has been admitted to the
United States on a conditional basis to remove those conditions when circumstances have changed.
An immigrant investor may proceed with the petition to remove conditions and present documentary
evidence demonstrating that, notwithstanding the business plan contained in the initial Form I-5268/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1312/2618