Social media is an informal means of communication that also connects benefit requestors and other
interested parties with core information and services on the USCIS website. In this way , social media
complements the USCIS website and increases USCIS’  ability to communicate with the public.
USCIS’  social media presence includes:
Twitter ( Main  and for E-Verify) – for concise information and news, usually accompanied by links
back to uscis.gov
Facebook  – for information and news, usually accompanied by links back to uscis.gov
YouTube – for videos
Instagram  – for photos and informational graphics
The USCIS Of fice of Public Affairs (OP A) manages all USCIS social media accounts, working with
various USCIS leadership and other of fices to develop content. USCIS’  posts are visible to anyone
with internet access.
USCIS generally uses social media to make information and services widely available to the general
public, to promote transparency and accountability , and to help those seeking information or services
from USCIS. USCIS posts information only after it has been appropriately approved and vetted by
OPA. Only USCIS employees acting in their of ficial capacity are authorized to post to USCIS social
media sites.
Comments on USCIS’  social media channels are visible to the public. To protect their privacy ,
commenters should not include full names, phone numbers, email addresses, Social Security
numbers, case numbers, or any other private information in comments.
USCIS does not moderate user comments on its channels before posting, but reserves the right to
remove any materials that pose a security risk or otherwise violate the USCIS social media policy . Any
opinions expressed in comments, except as specifically noted, are those of the individual commenters
and do not reflect any agency policy , endorsement, or action. USCIS does not collect or retain
comments in its records.
Use of each social media site is governed by that site’ s privacy policy .[4]
Footnotes
[^ 1] See the Contact Us  page on USCIS’  website.
[^ 2] See the How to Change Your Address  webpage. See Chapter 10, Changes of Address, Section
A, Updating Address Online [ 1 USCIS-PM A.10(A) ].
[^ 3] The USCIS Policy Manual will ultimately replace the Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), the
USCIS Immigration Policy Memoranda site, and other policy repositories.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 157/2618