Chapter 6 - Communicable Diseases of Public Health Significance
A. Communicable Diseases
Applicants who have communicable diseases of public health significance are inadmissible.[1] The
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has designated the following conditions as
communicable diseases of public health significance that apply to immigration medical examinations
conducted in the United States:[2]
Gonorrhea;
Hansen’ s Disease (Leprosy), infectious;
Syphilis, infectious stage; and 
Tuberculosis (TB), Active—Only a Class A TB diagnosis renders an applicant inadmissible to the
United States. Under current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)guidelines,
Class A TB means TB that is clinically active and communicable. 
What qualifies as a communicable disease of public health significance is determined by HHS, not by
USCIS. Any regulatory updates HHS makes to its list of communicable diseases of public health
significance are controlling over the list provided in this Part B.
1. Additional Communicable Diseases for Applicants Abroad
HHS regulations also list two additional general categories of communicable diseases of public health
significance.[3] Currently , these provisions only apply to applicants outside the United States who have
to be examined by panel physicians:[4]
Communicable diseases that may make a person subject to quarantine, as listed in a
Presidential Executive Order , as provided under Section 361(b) of the Public Health Service Act.
[5]
Communicable diseases that may pose a public health emergency of international concern if
they meet one or more of the factors listed in 42 CFR 34.3(d)  and for which the Director of the
CDC has determined that (A) a threat exists for importation into the United States, and (B) such
disease may potentially af fect the health of the American public. The determination will be made
consistent with criteria established in Annex 2 of the revised International Health Regulations.
HHS/CDC's determinations will be announced by notice in the Federal Register .
2. Human Immunodeficiency V irus (HIV)
As of January 4, 2010, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is no longer defined as a
communicable disease of public health significance according to HHS regulations.[6] Therefore, HIV
infection does not make the applicant inadmissible on health-related grounds for any immigration8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1909/2618