The discretionary analysis involves the review of all relevant, specific facts and circumstances in an
individual case. However , there are limitations on how the of ficer may exercise discretion; the of ficer
may not exercise discretion arbitrarily , inconsistently , or in reliance on biases or assumptions.
In some contexts, there are regulations and case law that outline certain factors that of ficers must
review and use as a guide in making a discretionary determination. However , there is no exhaustive
list of factors that of ficers must consider . To perform a discretionary analysis, of ficers must weigh all
positive factors present in a particular case against any negative factors in the totality of the record.[3]
The analysis must be comprehensive, specific to the case, and based on all relevant facts known at
the time of adjudication. For complex or dif ficult cases, of ficers should consult with supervisors and
local counsel. 
A. Applicability
Congress generally provides discretionary authority explicitly in the statutory language that governs an
immigration benefit. In some instances, however , discretionary authority is less explicit and must be
inferred from the statutory language. Executive agencies may also outline their discretionary authority
explicitly in regulations.[4]
Many immigration benefit requests are filed under provisions of law that require the favorable exercise
of discretion to administer the benefit.[5] In these cases, the benefit requestor has the burden of
demonstrating eligibility for the benefit sought and that USCIS should favorably exercise discretion.[6]
Where an immigration benefit is discretionary , meeting the statutory and regulatory requirements
alone does not entitle the requestor to the benefit sought.
Certain immigration benefits are not discretionary .[7] In these cases, if the requestor properly filed and
meets the eligibility requirements then USCIS must approve the benefit request. There is no
discretionary analysis as part of the adjudication, and these requests cannot be denied as a matter of
discretion.
The following table provides a non-exhaustive overview of immigration benefits and whether discretion
is involved in the adjudication of such benefits.
Immigration Benefits Involving Discretionary Review
Benefit T ypeDiscretion Involved
(Yes or No)
Petition to classify an alien as a nonimmigrant worker[8] No (with some exceptions)
Petition to classify an alien as a fiancé(e) of a U.S. citizen[9] Yes8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 297/2618