checks. USCIS also uses the benefit requestor ’s biometric information for the initial issuance or
replacement of a secure identity document. 
2. Full Legal Name
All USCIS-issued secure identity documents contain the benefit requestor ’s full legal name.[3]
Documents USCIS issues do not include nicknames. They do not contain initials, unless an initial
appears on the of ficial birth certificate, or the requestors legally changed their name to include an
initial.
USCIS does not suspend the adjudication of a benefit request pending a court determination of a
name change or other ef forts by the requestor to establish a new legal name. USCIS creates secure
identity documents using the legal name in place when the benefit request is decided. If the
applicant’ s name changes after filing, USCIS only issues the resulting identity document, if any , in the
new name if the applicant provides supporting documentation of the name change before USCIS
makes a decision on the benefit.[4]
Name Changes
If requestors change their name after USCIS issues the secure identity document, the requestor may
file an application, with the appropriate fee,[5] to request USCIS re-issue the secure identity document
with the new name.[6] The requestor must provide suf ficient evidence of the name change. USCIS
does not have legal authority to change a person’ s name. Requestors who changed their name must
submit evidence that they completed any name change procedure according to the relevant U.S. state
or foreign law .[7] The name change may or may not be recorded on the birth certificate, marriage
certificate, or other vital document record.[8]
3. Date of Birth
In general, the of ficial date of birth is the date recorded on the requestor ’s birth certificate. USCIS
recognizes dates of birth based on the Gregorian calendar in the following order: month, day , and
year. Some foreign countries issue documents with the date of birth in a dif ferent order .[9] Most
translations should have the date in the order of the month, day , and year . However , officers should
verify the order of a translated date before issuing documents to avoid discrepancies.
If there is a discrepancy between a translated birth certificate and other government-issued
documentation, the requestor must provide compelling evidence that the date of birth on the birth
certificate is incorrect or miscalculated. For naturalization certificates, USCIS cannot change a
recorded date of birth, except to correct a USCIS clerical error .[10]
4. Sex8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2229/2618