1. Definition of W illfulness
The term “willfully” should be interpreted as “knowingly” as distinguished from accidentally ,
inadvertently , or in a good faith belief that the factual claims are true.[21] To find the element of
willfulness, the of ficer must determine that the alien had knowledge of the falsity of the
misrepresentation, and therefore knowingly , intentionally , and deliberately presented false material
facts.[22]
When determining the “willfulness” of an alien’ s false representation, the of ficer should consider the
circumstances that existed at the time the benefit was issued.[23]
USCIS petitions and applications are signed “under penalty of perjury .” The alien may also be
interviewed under oath. By signing or by making statements under oath, the alien therefore asserts his
or her claims are truthful. If the evidence in the record subsequently shows that the claims
are factually unsupported, that may indicate the applicant willfully misrepresented his or her claim(s).
2. Silence or Failure to V olunteer Information
An alien’ s silence or failure to volunteer information does not, in and of itself, constitute fraud or
willful misrepresentation because silence itself does not establish a conscious concealment.
[24] Silence or omission can, however , lead to a finding of fraud or willful misrepresentation if it is clear
from the evidence that the alien consciously concealed information. 
If the evidence shows that the alien was reasonably aware of the nature of the information sought and
knowingly , intentionally , and deliberately concealed information from the of ficer, then the of ficer should
find that the applicant consciously concealed and willfully misrepresented a material fact. 
Example: 
An applicant is legally married but has lived apart from his spouse for 20 years. During that time apart,
the applicant lived with another person for 10 years as domestic partners until the other person died. A
few years later , having been in touch with his legal spouse by letter , the applicant states in his
application for admission to the United States that he is coming to join his wife. 
Although the applicant did not reveal the complications in his marital status during the past 20 years,
the applicant was not specifically asked any questions relating to these facts. As a matter of law , the
applicant is still married to the spouse, and there is no evidence that he married the spouse to obtain
an immigration benefit. Since the applicant gave reasonably accurate and correct answers, his failure
to disclose his complicated marital situation did not constitute conscious concealment of facts. 
Example: 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2063/2618