master ’s degree. If a doctoral degree is customarily required by the specialty , the beneficiary must
have a U.S. doctorate or a foreign equivalent degree.[6]
A beneficiary can satisfy the advanced degree requirement by holding either a:
U.S. master ’s degree or higher or a foreign degree evaluated to be the equivalent of a U.S.
master ’s degree or higher; or
U.S. bachelor ’s degree, or a foreign degree evaluated to be the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor ’s
degree, plus 5 years of progressive, post-degree work experience.[7]
A beneficiary who does not possess at least a U.S. bachelor ’s degree or a foreign equivalent degree is
ineligible for this classification.[8] 
3. Advanced Degree Position 
Mere possession of an advanced degree or its equivalent is not suf ficient for establishing a
beneficiary’ s eligibility for this classification. The petitioner must also demonstrate that the position
certified in the underlying permanent labor certification application or set forth on the Schedule A
application requires a professional holding an advanced degree or the equivalent.[9] The petitioner
must demonstrate that the position, and the industry as a whole, normally requires that the position be
filled by a person holding an advanced degree.
Where the position requires multiple credentials combined with experience, the issue is not whether a
combination of more than one of the foreign degrees or credentials is comparable to a single U.S.
bachelor ’s degree or an advanced degree, but rather that the minimum requirements for the position
in the permanent labor certification meet the definition of an advanced degree.[10]
This requirement has resulted in a particular problem involving petitions filed on behalf of registered
nurses. Although many such nurses possess advanced degrees, they are filling nursing positions in
the United States that generally do not require advanced degrees. Specifically , the Occupational
Information Network (O*Net)[11] indicates that, in nursing, only managerial jobs (director of nursing or
assistant director of nursing) or advanced level jobs (such as clinical nurse specialist, nurse
practitioner) generally require advanced degrees. A registered nurse job, by contrast, usually does not
require an advanced degree.
The long waiting periods often required for issuance of third preference employment-based immigrant
visas for skilled workers, professionals, or other workers may cause a gap between the available
supply of eligible nurses and the high demand for nursing services. Of ficers must verify the actual
minimum requirements for the nursing position of fered in the advanced degree petition. As stated,
most nursing positions do not qualify for the advanced degree classification.
B. Exceptional Ability8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1195/2618