It is dif ficult to discern a distinguishing set of principles that the courts apply to determine whether a
particular of fense involving sexual and family crimes is a CIMT . In some cases, the presence or
absence of violence seems to be an important factor . The presence or absence of criminal intent may
also be a determining factor . The CIMT  determination depends upon state statutes and the controlling
case law and must be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Offenses such as spousal or child abuse may rise to the level of a CIMT , while an of fense involving a
domestic simple assault generally does not. An of fense relating to indecent exposure or abandonment
of a minor child may or may not rise to the level of a CIMT . In general, if the person knew or should
have known that the victim was a minor , any intentional sexual contact with a child involves moral
turpitude.[6]
Crimes Against the Authority of the Government
The presence of fraud primarily determines the presence of moral turpitude in crimes against the
authority of the government. Of fering a bribe to a government of ficial and of fenses relating to
counterfeiting are generally CIMT s. Of fenses relating to possession of counterfeit securities without
intent and contempt of court, however , are not generally CIMT s.
2. Committing One or More CIMT s in Statutory Period
An applicant who is convicted of or admits to committing one or more CIMT s during the statutory
period cannot establish GMC for naturalization.[7] If the applicant has only been convicted of (or
admits to) one CIMT , the CIMT  must have been committed within the statutory period as well. In cases
of multiple CIMT s, only the commission and conviction (or admission) of one CIMT  needs to be within
the statutory period.
Petty Offense Exception
An applicant who has committed only one CIMT  that is a considered a “petty of fense,” such as petty
theft, may be eligible for an exception if all of the following conditions are met:
The “petty of fense” is the only CIMT  the applicant has ever committed; 
The sentence imposed for the of fense was 6 months or less; and 
The maximum possible sentence for the of fense does not exceed one year .[8]
The petty of fense exception does not apply to an applicant who has been convicted of or who admits
to committing more than one CIMT  even if only one of the CIMT s was committed during the statutory
period. An applicant who has committed more than one petty of fense of which only one is a CIMT  may
be eligible for the petty of fense exception.[9]
Purely Political Offense Exception8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2408/2618