USCIS considers a home study that is valid at the time of submission, to remain valid until the
suitability application approval expires or there is a significant change (that was not previously
assessed).[6]
2. Suitability Approval
Initial Approval
The initial approval of the suitability application[7] expires 15 months after the date of the approval
unless approval is revoked.[8]
Extensions
PAPs seeking a first or second no-fee extension of their suitability application approval must submit a
Request for Action on Approved Form I-600A/I-600 ( Form I-600A/I-600 Supplement 3 ) (for the orphan
process), or Request for Action on Approved Form I-800A  (Form I-800A  Supplement 3 ) (for the Hague
Adoption Convention process) and an updated home study before their approval expires and may do
so up to 90 days before its expiration. There is no fee for the first or second extension request, but
there is a fee for subsequent extensions.[9]
USCIS does not limit the number of extensions that a P AP may request. However , if the P AP’s
suitability application approval expires before the P AP submits the request, the P AP must file a new
suitability application or combination filing (for orphan cases), with the appropriate fee.[10] To request
an extension, the P AP files a Request for Action on Approved Form I-600A/I-600 ( Form I-600A/I-600
Supplement 3 ) (for the orphan process) or Request for Action on Approved Form I-800A  (Form I-800A
Supplement 3 ) (for the Hague Adoption Convention process) in accordance with form instructions, with
the applicable fee.
If USCIS does not approve a request for an extension of an approved suitability application, it does not
serve as a revocation or denial of the original approval notice. However , the notice of approved
suitability lapses 15 months from the approval of the application. The P AP cannot appeal or challenge
the USCIS decision on the extension request. The P AP may file a new suitability application,[11] with
the required fee and documentation even if USCIS denied the extension request.
Impact of Filing the Child’ s Petition
Once a P AP files the child’ s Petition to Classify Orphan as an Immediate Relative ( Form I-600 ) or
Petition to Classify Convention Adoptee as an Immediate Relative ( Form I-800 ), they do not need to
continue to extend or file new suitability applications. However , the P AP and any adult household
member have an ongoing duty of disclosure throughout the intercountry adoption process, and need
to continue to notify USCIS and their home study preparer of any significant changes.
Duplicate Approval Notices8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 926/2618