to multiple projects, the petitioner must submit evidence demonstrating that all such agreements and
projects are either directly connected to, supporting, associated with, or adversely af fected by , the
military realignment occurring on Guam or in the CNMI.
If claiming eligibility for healthcare workers, the petitioner should submit:
A signed statement on company letterhead from a corporate of ficer or facility administrator
having authority to speak on behalf of the company or facility providing its TRICARE or other
applicable provider number and attesting to the fact that it jointly serves members of the U.S.
armed forces, dependents, and civilians. The statement should, to the extent possible, also
include the number of members of the U.S. armed forces, dependents, and civilians on Guam or
in the CNMI that the petitioning facility has served in the preceding 12 months. USCIS uses this
information to evaluate the use of the NDAA  provision.
USCIS recognizes the limitations imposed upon health care facilities by patient confidentiality
restrictions. Accordingly , USCIS does not expect and does not generally request that a petitioner
submit facility records that would support that it is jointly serving members of the U.S. armed forces,
dependents, and civilians on Guam or in the CNMI.
5. Adjudication
Petitioners bear the burden of establishing eligibility for the NDAA  exemption.[25] USCIS of ficers
determine whether the petitioner has met its burden of demonstrating eligibility under the NDAA  based
on the totality of the evidence. When applicable, of ficers should give appropriate weight to the signed
statement from the DOD, particularly with respect to determining the relationship between the services
or labor and the military realignment, as opposed to other U.S. military activity . Similarly , when
applicable, of ficers should review the contents of the signed letter from Guam DOL  and give it
appropriate weight. However , statements from the DOD and Guam DOL  are not determinative. Again,
the determination whether the NDAA  exemption applies in a given case will be based on all of the
facts presented, based on the preponderance of the evidence standard.
Under the FY  2021 NDAA, priority is given to contracts or subcontracts for services or labor for
federally funded projects directly connected to, supporting, or associated with the military realignment
on Guam and in the CNMI.[26]
Accordingly , a petition demonstrating that the applicable services or labor are performed under a
federally funded agreement, contract, or subcontract has made a prima facie case that it qualifies for
the NDAA  exemption. This means that USCIS may accept, without any further evidence or inquiry , that
the petitioner has established eligibility under the NDAA  and is exempted from showing temporary
need.
USCIS of ficers, however , still must determine whether the petition meets other H-2B requirements,
such as an H-2B worker ’s eligibility for H-2B status, and in their discretion, may request additional8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 440/2618