USCIS has sole jurisdiction over petitions for special immigrant juvenile (SIJ) classification.[1]
Provided the petitioner is otherwise eligible, classification as an SIJ establishes eligibility to apply for
adjustment of status.[2]
B. Expeditious Adjudication
In general, USCIS issues a decision on a properly filed petition for SIJ classification within 180 days.[3]
The 180-day timeframe begins on the Notice of Action (Form I-797) receipt date.[4]
The 180-day timeframe applies only to the initial adjudication of the SIJ petition. The requirement does
not extend to the adjudication of any motion or appeal filed after a denial of an SIJ petition.
C. Interview
1. Determining Necessity of Interview
USCIS has discretion to interview SIJ petitioners for the purposes of adjudicating the SIJ petition.[5]
USCIS recognizes the vulnerable nature of SIJ petitioners and generally conducts interviews of SIJ
petitioners only when an interview is deemed necessary . USCIS conducts a full review of the petition
and supporting evidence to determine whether an interview may be warranted. USCIS generally does
not require an interview if the record contains suf ficient information and evidence to approve the
petition without an in-person assessment. However , USCIS retains the discretion to interview SIJ
petitioners for the purposes of adjudicating the SIJ petition, as appropriate.
2. Conducting the Interview
Given the vulnerable nature of SIJ petitioners and the hardships they may face because of the loss of
parental support, USCIS strives to establish a child-friendly interview environment if an interview is
scheduled. During an interview , officers avoid questioning the petitioner about the details of the abuse,
neglect, or abandonment suf fered, because these issues are handled by the juvenile court. Of ficers
generally focus the interview on resolving issues related to the eligibility requirements, including age.
The petitioner may bring a trusted adult to the interview in addition to an attorney or representative.[6]
The trusted adult may serve as a familiar source of comfort to the petitioner , but should not interfere
with the interview process or coach the petitioner during the interview . Given potential human
trafficking and other concerns, of ficers assess the appropriateness of the adult’ s attendance in the
interview and observe the adult’ s interaction with the child. When appropriate, the of ficer may
interview the child without that adult present. Although USCIS may limit the number of persons present
at the interview , such limitations do not extend to the petitioner ’s attorney or accredited representative
of record.[7]
D. Requests for Evidence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1424/2618