2. Adjudication
If USCIS determines that the applicant would be persecuted upon return to the home country , it then
transmits the information to DOS. DOS may choose not to recommend an approval of a waiver based
on program, policy , or foreign relations aspects of a case, even if USCIS finds that the J-1 exchange
visitor would be subject to persecution.[21]
Burden of Proof
In all cases, applicants have the burden of proving eligibility for a waiver and must demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that they are fully qualified for the waiver .[22]
3. Decision
If the applicant cannot establish a prima facie case of persecution through the documentary evidence
submitted, USCIS does not send the case to DOS-WRD, but, rather , denies the application. Applicants
may appeal this determination to the AAO.
If the applicant establishes a prima facie case of persecution, but DOS-WRD does not recommend
approval, USCIS denies the application. There is no appeal right from this type of denial because the
unfavorable recommendation came from DOS-WRD, not from USCIS.
If the applicant establishes a prima facie case of persecution and DOS-WRD recommends approval,
USCIS approves the waiver and notifies the applicant and the applicant's legal representative, if
applicable, of the approval.
D. No Objection
With the exception of J exchange visitors who came to the United States for the purpose of receiving
graduate medical training and those who changed to J-1 status for such purpose, J exchange visitors
may request a waiver of the foreign residence requirement based on a statement by the government
of the country of the applicant’ s nationality or last legal permanent residence that it has no objection if
the applicant does not return to the country upon completion of the program.[23] This of ficial statement
is commonly known as a “no objection” letter .
A no objection letter is generally insuf ficient to warrant a favorable recommendation from the DOS-
WRD when U.S. government funding was involved in the exchange program.
1. Requirements
Applicants may not submit a no objection letter directly to USCIS. USCIS rejects letters submitted
directly to USCIS by the exchange visitor along with instructions on the proper channels for
submission.[24] No objection letters must be sent directly from the J-1 exchange visitor ’s home country8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 355/2618