Age; 
Level of education;
Background; 
Mental capacity;
Level of understanding;
Ability to appreciate the dif ference between true and false; and 
Other relevant circumstances. 
The fact that a misrepresentation occurred while the alien was under 18 years of age, in particular , is
not determinative. There is no categorical rule that someone under 18 cannot, as a matter of law ,
make a willful misrepresentation. An alien may be able to claim, however , that, on the basis of the
facts of his or her own case, he or she lacked the capacity necessary to form a willful intent to
misrepresent a material fact. 
If admissibility is an issue in a case, USCIS does not bear the burden of proving that the alien is
inadmissible. As long as there is at least some evidence that would permit a reasonable person to find
an applicant inadmissible, the applicant must establish that the inadmissibility ground does not
apply . For this reason, someone who appears to have made a willful misrepresentation of a material
fact while under the age of 18 would have to prove his or her lack of capacity .
This burden of proof would also apply to someone who claimed a lack of capacity based on a reason
other than age, such as cognitive or other disabilities. 
If the evidence, clearly and beyond doubt, shows that the alien did not have the capacity to form an
intent to deceive, then the misrepresentation could not have been fraudulent. Similarly , if the evidence,
clearly and beyond doubt, shows that the alien did not have the capacity to know that the information
was false, then the misrepresentation could not have been willful. 
In these cases, the of ficer should not find the applicant inadmissible for fraud or willful
misrepresentation.
6. Timely Retraction
As a defense to inadmissibility for fraud or willful misrepresentation, an alien may show that he or she
timely retracted or recanted the false statement. The ef fect of a timely retraction is that the
misrepresentation is eliminated as if it had never happened.[28] If an alien timely retracts the
statement, the alien is not inadmissible for fraud or willful misrepresentation. 
For the retraction to be ef fective, it has to be voluntary and timely .[29] The applicant must correct his or
her representation before being exposed by the of ficer or U.S. government of ficial or before the
conclusion of the proceeding during which he or she gave false testimony . A retraction can
be voluntary and timely if made in response to an of ficer’s question during which the of ficer gives the
applicant a chance to explain or correct a potential misrepresentation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2065/2618