The of ficer should verify that the employment-based adjustment applicant’ s Immigrant Petition for
Alien W orker ( Form I-140 ) remains valid. The of ficer should determine that the applicant is either
employed by the petitioner or the job of fer still exists, that the employer continues to have the financial
means to employ the applicant. In addition, the of ficer should determine that the employer continues to
be a viable business, including possessing a valid business license in the county , state or jurisdiction
within which it is operating.
If the adjustment application has been pending for 180 days or more, the applicant may be eligible
for adjustment portability .[11] Portability allows the applicant to accept an of fer of employment
with either the petitioner or a dif ferent employer in the same or similar occupational classification as
the position for which the petition was approved. 
C. Verify V isa Availability
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) limits the number of immigrant visas that may be issued to
aliens seeking to become U.S. permanent residents each year . U.S. Department of State (DOS) is the
agency that allocates immigrant visa numbers. In most cases, an immigrant visa must be available at
the time of filing the adjustment application and at the time of final adjudication, if approved.
1. Immediate V isa Availability
Congress gave immigration priority to immediate relative immigrants, defined as:
The spouses of U.S. citizens; 
The children (unmarried and under 21 years of age) of U.S. citizens;
The parents of U.S. citizens at least 21 years old; and 
Widows or widowers of U.S. citizens if the spouse files a petition within 2 years of the citizen’ s
death.[12]
Immigrant visas for immediate relatives of U.S. citizens are unlimited, so the visas are always
available. In other words, immediate relatives are exempt from the numerical restrictions of other
immigrant categories; an immigrant visa is always immediately available at the time they file an
adjustment application and at the time of final adjudication, if approved. 
Below are additional categories of aliens who are exempt from numerical restrictions and may file an
adjustment of status application at any time or during the time period allowed by the applicable
provision of law , provided they are otherwise eligible:[13]
Aliens adjusting status based on refugee or asylee status;[14]
Aliens adjusting status based on T nonimmigrant (human traf ficking victim) status;[15]
Aliens adjusting status based on U nonimmigrant (crime victims) status; 
Aliens adjusting status based on Special Agricultural W orker or Legalization provisions;[16]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1458/2618