The authorized agency of ficials may consider various factors, including the following, in their
determination:
The identity of the donor;
The monetary or estimated market value or the cost to the donor;
The purpose of the gift as described in any written statement or oral proposal by the donor;
The identity of any other expected recipients of the gift on the same occasion, if any;
The timing of the gift;
The number of times the donor has of fered gifts to USCIS;
The nature and sensitivity of any matter pending before the agency that may af fect the interest of
the donor;
The importance or consequence of an individual employee's role in any matter af fecting the
donor (for example, if benefits of the gift will accrue to the employee); and
The nature of the of fered gift.
At the end of the gift of fer process, USCIS provides notification of the acceptance or rejection of the
gift of fer to the donor .
J. Coordination with External Organizations
When USCIS hosts an administrative naturalization ceremony[54] in which an external organization
(such as another federal agency or a local community-based organization) plays a role,[55] USCIS is
ultimately responsible for ensuring that the event is important, dignified, and significant. While USCIS
welcomes participation from external organizations, USCIS does not formally co-host ceremonies with
external organizations.
1. USCIS Responsibilities
In conducting administrative ceremonies, USCIS is responsible for the following:
Approving the ceremony facility – USCIS follows internal policies and procedures regarding the
use of space, including donations of space.[56] Prior to selecting the facility , USCIS reserves the
right to conduct a site visit of the proposed space.
Planning the ceremony – USCIS determines the ceremony program, including the order of
events, the order of speakers, the seating arrangements of the speakers on stage, and security
measures appropriate for the venue.[57]
Ensuring the ceremony remains the focus of the event.
Ensuring proper use and placement of the DHS seal and signature according to approved
guidelines.[58] When coordinating with an external entity , USCIS must avoid perceived
endorsement.
Selecting, inviting, and approving guest speakers – USCIS must approve all guest speakers.
While the collaborating organization may recommend guest speakers to USCIS, the selection is8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2592/2618