In most registry cases, a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted because the positive factor of
having lived in the United States for such a long period of time and having created ties to the country
outweigh all but the most negative discretionary factors.[25]
6. Treatment of Family Members
Dependents of registry applicants cannot file as derivative applicants. Each applicant must qualify on
his or her own. An applicant may petition for eligible family members in an appropriate family-based
category once he or she obtains permanent resident status through registry .
E. Documentation and Evidence
An applicant should submit the following to establish eligibility for registry:
Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ), with the correct fee;
Two passport-style photographs;
Copy of government-issued identity document with photograph;
Copy of birth certificate;
Evidence of entry into the United States prior to January 1, 1972;
Evidence of continuous physical presence in the United States since entry; and
Certified police and court records of criminal charges, arrests, or convictions (if applicable).
An applicant does not have to submit a Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination
Record ( Form I-693 ) or Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A  of the Act (Form I-864 ), because the
medical and public charge grounds of inadmissibility are not applicable.
F. Adjudication
1. Jurisdiction
An application for registry must be filed according to the form instructions. USCIS generally has
jurisdiction to adjudicate the application unless the applicant has been served with a Notice to Appear
or warrant of arrest.[26] If the applicant has been served with a Notice to Appear , an Immigration
Judge generally has jurisdiction over the application. If an Immigration Judge has jurisdiction, an
officer completes only preliminary processing and closing actions on the case once the judge has
made a final decision. 
2. Interview
If USCIS has jurisdiction, the applicant is interviewed to determine eligibility . At the interview , the
officer places the applicant under oath and proceeds to review the application.
Name8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1849/2618