citizen.
[^ 39]  The AM1 code is assigned to those admitted as LPRs at a U.S. port of entry (after consular
processing abroad) based on their classification as an Amerasian, born in V ietnam after January 1,
1962 and before January 1, 1976 and fathered by a U.S. citizen.
[^ 40]  See 8 CFR 103.2(b)(19)  and 8 CFR 103.3(a) .
Chapter 10 - Reserved
Part Q - Rescission of Lawful Permanent Residence
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
Rescission proceedings serve the goal of removing a person’ s lawful permanent resident (LPR) status
when USCIS determines that he or she was not eligible for adjustment of status at the time LPR status
was granted. Rescission places the person in the same standing that he or she would have been in if
USCIS had never granted adjustment of status. In certain limited circumstances, this can result in the
person being in a period of authorized stay or having some form of lawful immigration status even
after rescission. In most instances, however , it results in the person having no lawful status and not
being in a period of authorized stay , and therefore subject to removal proceedings. A contested
rescission proceeding requires a hearing before an immigration judge (IJ), so most cases subject to
possible rescission are placed in removal proceedings instead of rescission proceedings.
B. Background
Rescission is a cumbersome process that was once required before the initiation of removal
proceedings against certain LPRs.[1] Rescission is now an option that USCIS uses only in limited
instances. In most cases, USCIS can and should place the person into removal proceedings under
INA 240 with a Notice to Appear .[2] Any subsequent order of removal issued by an IJ is now suf ficient
to rescind the LPR’ s status. Because most cases that used to require rescission (for example,
adjustment obtained by fraud) now may be resolved in the context of removal proceedings under INA
240, rescission should be an infrequent process.[3]
C. Legal Authorities
INA 246 – Rescission of adjustment of status; ef fect upon naturalized citizen; 8 CFR 246  –
Rescission of adjustment of status8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1879/2618