Committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the United States prior to arriving in the United
States;
Is a danger to the security of the United States, including terrorist activity;
May be removed, to a country (other than the country of the applicant’ s nationality or last
habitual residence) in which the applicant’ s life or freedom would not be threatened on account
of race, religion, nationality , membership in a particular social group, or political opinion, where
the applicant is eligible to receive asylum or equivalent temporary protection;
Has voluntarily availed himself or herself of the protection of the country of nationality or last
habitual residence by returning to such country with permanent resident status or the reasonable
possibility of obtaining such status with the same rights and obligations pertaining to other
permanent residents of that country; or
Has acquired a new nationality and enjoys the protection of the country of his new nationality .
2. Asylum Application Filed before April 1, 1997
USCIS may terminate the approval of asylum if USCIS determines that the applicant:
No longer has a well-founded fear of persecution due to changed country conditions;
Was convicted of a particularly serious crime or an aggravated felony;
Was firmly resettled in a third country;
Can reasonably be regarded as a danger to the security of the United States; or
Is a persecutor or has engaged in terrorist activity .
B. Procedures
1. Asylum Granted by USCIS or INS
Termination Before Decision on Adjustment Application
USCIS may initiate termination of asylum status if USCIS or legacy Immigration and Naturalization
Services (INS) initially granted the status. USCIS may not terminate asylum status granted by an
immigration judge (IJ) or the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA). If an of ficer determines that
termination may be appropriate in a case where USCIS or legacy INS granted asylum, the of ficer
should forward the case to the asylum of fice with jurisdiction before adjudicating the adjustment of
status application. Jurisdiction is based on the current residence of the applicant, regardless of which
USCIS of fice or legacy INS of fice originally granted asylum status.
In all but the Ninth Circuit (discussed below), the asylum of fice must provide the asylee with written
notice before USCIS terminates the asylee’ s asylum status and any related employment authorization.
The written notice is called a Notice of Intent to Terminate (NOIT). The NOIT  presents the termination
ground(s) under consideration, provides a brief summary of the evidence supporting the grounds for
termination, and notifies the asylee that he or she will have an opportunity to rebut the termination8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1830/2618