Applicants who have multiple periods of service must demonstrate that they have at least one
qualifying period of service to establish eligibility under INA  329. A qualifying period of service is a
period of service during which the applicant served honorably as a member of the Selected Reserve of
the Ready Reserve or on active duty in the U.S. armed forces during a designated period of hostilities,
and if separated, was separated under honorable conditions.
Therefore, an applicant who was separated under honorable conditions from a qualifying period of
service may be eligible for naturalization under INA  329 even if the applicant received a dif ferent type
of discharge from any other period of service, including during a designated period of hostilities.
For example, an applicant may have enlisted in October 1975, and served honorably on active duty for
one entire period of service until 1978. The applicant is honorably discharged and immediately
reenlists for a second period of service for 2 more years starting in 1978 and ending in 1980. During
the second period of service (1978-1980), the applicant is discharged under “other than honorable
conditions.” This applicant, if able to demonstrate good moral character and meet all other
naturalization requirements, is eligible to naturalize under INA  329 based on the first qualifying period
of service (1975-1978).
Similarly , an applicant who was previously separated with a discharge type that was not under
honorable conditions, but subsequently reenlisted or was reinstated to service, may qualify for
naturalization based upon the subsequent qualifying period of service if the executive department
under which the applicant performed the subsequent period of service certifies that the applicant
served honorably and, if separated, was separated under honorable conditions.
3. Certification by Executive Department
The executive department provides its certification on the Request for Certification of Military or Naval
Service ( Form N-426 ) and, in the case of an applicant who has separated from service, on the
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214), Report of Separation and Record
of Service (NGB Form 22), or other of ficial discharge document.
C. National Guard Service
An applicant filing on the basis of military service during hostilities[9] who has National Guard service
may qualify if the applicant has honorable service in either the U.S. armed forces or in the Selected
Reserve of the Ready Reserve.[10] USCIS does not require proof of federal activation for a National
Guard applicant if the applicant served in the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve during a
designated period of hostility .[11]
The National Guard determines when one of its members is a member of the Selected Reserve of the
Ready Reserve; however , most National Guard members adhere to Selected Reserve training
requirements and are members of the Selected Reserve of their respective services.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2538/2618