3. Communication with Address on File
USCIS sends written correspondence to the address on file. Before USCIS is able to send any
correspondence to a dif ferent address, the person must update their address in USCIS systems.[7]
Change of address requests associated with people protected by 8 U.S.C. 1367  confidentiality
provisions must follow separate procedures.[8]
4. Third-Party Information
Information from other agencies, such as Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI), or the U.S. Department of State (DOS) may be located in USCIS files
and systems. This information must not be released in response to an inquiry , although it may be
appropriate to refer the inquiry to another agency .
5. Third-Party Government Inquiries
USCIS may share records covered under the Privacy Act with written consent from the person or
pursuant to a routine use listed in the applicable System of Records Notices . Before sharing
information with a government entity , USCIS must determine if the disclosure and use of information is
compatible with an existing routine use. Planned uses must also be compatible with the purpose for
which DHS originally collected the information. There are, however , enumerated exceptions of the Act
that may apply .
Congress
One exception is for disclosures to either house of Congress, or any Congressional committee,
subcommittee, joint committee, or subcommittee of a joint committee, if the matter is within its
jurisdiction. For all other requests from members of Congress, such as constituent requests, the
person whose information is to be released must have provided the member of Congress with a
privacy release for USCIS to disclose any information related to that person.
The USCIS Of fice of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs (OLIA)) and designated liaisons handle
all inquiries and certain correspondence from Congress to USCIS. Members of Congress,
congressional of fices, and congressional committees should always go through OLIA  when initiating
an inquiry . The USCIS and Congress  webpage on USCIS’  website provides instructions on how
members of Congress should interact with and contact USCIS . Non-liaison USCIS employees who are
contacted directly with a congressional inquiry should refer it to OLIA  so that it may proceed through
the proper channels.
Law Enforcement Agencies
Information may be shared with other DHS components under the existing DHS information sharing
policy ,[9] which considers all DHS components one agency , as long as there is a mission need in line8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 176/2618