There are known criminal inadmissibility or national security concerns that cannot be resolved at
a service center;
There are fraud concerns and the service center recommends an interview;
The applicant’ s fingerprints have been rejected twice;
The applicant has a Class A medical condition that the service center cannot resolve through a
Request for Evidence (RFE);
The applicant answered “Y es” to any eligibility question on the adjustment application, and the
service center cannot determine eligibility through an RFE; or
The service center has not been able to obtain an applicant’ s A-File, T-File, or receipt file (when
the applicant has multiple files).
C. Interpreters
An applicant may not be fluent in English and may require use of an interpreter for the adjustment
interview . At the adjustment interview , the interpreter should: 
Present his or her valid government-issued identity document and complete an interpreter ’s oath
and privacy release statement; and
Translate what the of ficer and the applicant say word-for-word to the best of his or her ability
without adding the interpreter ’s own opinion, commentary , or answer .
In general, a disinterested party should be used as the interpreter . An of ficer may exercise discretion,
however , to allow a friend or relative of the applicant to act as interpreter . If the of ficer is fluent in the
applicant’ s preferred language, the of ficer may conduct the examination in that language without use
of an interpreter . 
USCIS reserves the right to disqualify an interpreter provided by the applicant if the of ficer believes the
integrity of the examination is compromised by the interpreter ’s participation or the of ficer determines
the interpreter is not competent to translate. 
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 209.1(d) , 8 CFR 209.2(e) , and 8 CFR 245.6 .
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 103.2(b)(7) . 
[^ 3] See 8 CFR 245.6 . USCIS is not required to waive the interview , even if an applicant falls within
one of the categories listed in 8 CFR 245.6  or in this section.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1454/2618