Criterion 8: The person has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or
establishments that have a distinguished reputation.[33]
A supporting role may be considered critical if the person's performance in the role is (or was)
important. It is not the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that
determines whether the role is (or was) critical.
This is one criterion where letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the
person's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to of ficers in making this determination, so
long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the
person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or department was leading or critical.
Evidence of experience must consist of letters from employers.[35]
Second, USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division
for which the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation.
The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining
factor but is considered together with other information to determine whether a distinguished
reputation exists. Other relevant factors for evaluating the reputation of an organization or
establishment can include the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage.
For academic departments, programs, and institutions, of ficers may also consider relevant and
credible national rankings and receipt of government research grants as positive factors.
For a startup business, of ficers may consider evidence that the business has received significant
funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or other such funders
commensurate with funding rounds generally achieved for that startup’ s stage and industry , as a
positive factor regarding its distinguished reputation.
Merriam-W ebster's online dictionary defines “distinguished” as “marked by eminence, distinction, or
excellence” or “befitting an eminent person.”[36]
 
Criterion 9: The person has commanded a high salary , or other significantly high
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field.[37]
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation
paid to others working in the field. USCIS does not interpret the phrase “has commanded” to mean
that the person must have already earned such salary or remuneration in order to meet the criterion.
Rather , a credible contract or job of fer showing prospective salary or remuneration may establish
that the person has been able to command such compensation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1158/2618