Criterion 6: The person's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major
trade publications or other major media.[28]
First, USCIS determines whether the person has authored scholarly articles in the field.
As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation,
or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often af filiated
with a college, university , or research institution. Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed
by other experts in the field of specialization. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a
bibliography , and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts
expressed in the article.
Examples of scholarly article authorship include, but are not limited to:
Publications in professionally-relevant peer-reviewed journals; and
Published conference presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.[29]
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. ("Learned" is
defined as "having profound knowledge gained by study").[30] Learned persons include all persons
having profound knowledge of a field.
Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major
trade publication, or major media publication.
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication or major media, relevant
factors include the intended audience (for professional journals) and the circulation or readership
relative to other media in the field (for major media).
 
Criterion 7: Display of the person's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases.[31]
First, USCIS determines whether the work that was displayed is the person's work product.
The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the work must be the
person's work product.
Second, USCIS determines whether the venues (virtual or otherwise) where the person's work was
displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases. Merriam-W ebster's online dictionary defines
“exhibition” as a public showing (as of works of art, objects of manufacture, or athletic skill).[32]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1156/2618