Successor-in-interest entities that wish to rely on the approval of a petition and the permanent labor
certification filed by a predecessor entity must file an amended petition that demonstrates that a
qualifying successor-in-interest relationship exists in accordance with the three successor-in-interest
factors.[2]
The petitioner must submit the following evidence with each amended petition:
Documentation, such as a copy of the Form I-797 approval or receipt notice, that provides the
previously filed petition’ s receipt number and the petitioner ’s name and address;
Documentation to establish the ability to pay the prof fered wage by the predecessor and the
successor;
Documentation to establish the qualifying transfer of ownership of the predecessor to the
successor; and
Documentation from an authorized of ficial of the successor evidencing the transfer of ownership
of the predecessor , the organizational structure of the predecessor before the transfer; the
current organizational structure of the successor; and the job title, job location, rate of pay , job
description, and job requirements for the permanent job opportunity for the beneficiary .
D. Consolidated Processing of Multiple Successor-In-Interest Petitions
Each successor-in-interest petition must be evaluated according to the three factors and is adjudicated
on its own merits with regard to eligibility for the visa preference classification requested in the petition.
[3] However , multiple filings based on the same transfer and assumption of the ownership of the
predecessor by the successor may have duplicative evidence provided in each case to establish the
transfer and assumption of the ownership of the predecessor by the successor .
In the interest of ef ficiency and consistency , USCIS may elect to accept consolidated evidence (for
example, one copy of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K for 20 petitions
instead of 20 copies of the SEC Form 10-K). Additionally , USCIS may coordinate the adjudication of
multiple pending successor petitions so that the petitions are adjudicated at a single USCIS of fice or at
the same time or both, to the extent that other pressing work priorities permit.
Petitioners can initiate a request for the consolidated processing of multiple successor-in-interest
cases af fected by the same transfer of ownership through the USCIS Contact Center  or, if applicable,
the appropriate Premium Processing mailbox.[4] USCIS reviews the submitted request and any
related documentation when determining whether USCIS may accept the consolidated evidence.
The decision to grant a request for consolidated case processing rests solely with USCIS.
E. Successor-In-Interest Determinations8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1094/2618