Employees were working on the premises and engaged in normal business activity;
The worksite was open and available to clients or customers, if applicable, as well as to
employees; and
Employees had access to the area where the notice of filing was posted.
4. Notice of Filing: Posting Locations[27]
Posting at Worksite
If the employer knows where the beneficiary will be placed, then the employer must post the notice at
the worksite(s) where the beneficiary will perform the work, and publish the notice internally using in-
house media (whether electronic or print) according to the normal internal procedures used by the
employer to notify its employees of employment opportunities in the occupation in question. The
prevailing wage indicated in the notice is the wage applicable to the area of intended employment
where the worksite is located.
If the employer currently employs relevant workers at multiple locations and does not know where the
beneficiary will be placed, then the employer must post the notice at the worksite(s) of all of its
locations or clients where relevant workers currently are placed, and publish the notice of filing
internally using in-house media (whether electronic or print) according to the normal internal
procedures used by the employer to notify its employees of employment opportunities in the
occupation in question.
The situation of multiple work locations may arise in, but is not limited to, a scenario when the
employer is a staf fing agency which has clients under contract at the time that the employer seeks to
post a timely notice of filing. In support of the petition, the employer may provide a copy of one posting
notice supported by a list of all locations where the notice was posted and dates of posting in each
location. The employer does not have to submit a copy of each notice.[28]
Officers might encounter cases in which the employment is not full-time, permanent employment[29] or
where the worksite(s) is unknown and the employer has no current locations or clients. In those cases,
the of ficer may deny the petition because no bona fide job opportunity exists.[30]
In-house Media
An employer is required to publish the notice in all in-house media, whether electronic or print, that the
employer normally uses to announce similar positions within its organization.[31] The employer must
submit as evidence a copy of all in-house media that was used to distribute notice of the application
according to the procedures used for similar positions within the employer's organization.
E. Physical Therapists and Registered Nurses (Group I)
1. General Eligibility8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1126/2618