Neither the medical facility nor the physician who qualifies and wishes to participate in the blanket
designation needs to obtain approval from USCIS prior to performing immigration medical
examinations as specified in the next section. Blanket designated civil surgeons are exempt from both
USCIS application and fee requirements for civil surgeon designation.
However , military physicians must review and be familiar with CDC’ s Technical Instructions for the
Medical Examination of Aliens in the United States before they can begin performing immigration
medical examinations.[14]
3. Scope
Pursuant to the understanding reached between USCIS and CDC, military physicians only qualify
under this blanket civil surgeon designation when two conditions are met. First, the examination must
be conducted in the United States at an MTF or other location where the military physician may be
authorized to examine Afghan nationals in coordination with Operation Allies Refuge. Second, the
immigration medical examination is being conducted for:
A U.S. armed forces member or veteran;
 A dependent of a U.S. armed forces member or veteran who is eligible to receive medical care
at an MTF; or
Certain Afghan nationals seeking a special immigrant visa, including both principal applicants
and eligible family members, in coordination with Operation Allies Refuge.
If these two conditions are not met, military physicians are not covered under this blanket designation
and must apply for civil surgeon designation under the standard designation process[15] in order to
perform immigration medical examinations.
U.S. armed forces members, veterans, or dependents must visit a physician designated as a civil
surgeon through the standard application process if they:
Prefer to have the immigration medical examination performed by a physician who does not
qualify under this blanket designation for military physicians;
Prefer to have the immigration medical examination performed in a U.S. location other than at
the MTF at which they are authorized to receive medical services (or other authorized location
under this blanket designation for military physicians); or
Do not have access to a military physician who is performing immigration medical examinations
under this blanket designation. 
4. Recording and Certification Requirements
Military physicians operating under the blanket civil surgeon designation must record the results of the
immigration medical examination on the Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination
Record ( Form I-693 ), according to the standard procedures all civil surgeons are required to follow . 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1943/2618