Visitors must abide by applicable policies established by the facility in which they are seeking services.
Depending on the facility’ s policies, visitors may be permitted to possess cell phones, personal digital
assistants, tablets, laptops, and other electronic devices.
No one may photograph or record at a USCIS of fice except when observing naturalization or
citizenship ceremonies. In addition, phones should be silenced while in the waiting area and any
conversations should be kept to a low level so as not to disrupt others. Phones should be turned of f
during interviews or while being served by USCIS staf f at the information counter .
To ensure successful implementation of this guidance, USCIS field of fices are encouraged to:
Ensure all USCIS federal and contract employees are aware of the cell phone usage policies;
Ensure all visitors are informed of the cell phone usage policies; and
Display posters and signage regarding this guidance in common areas.
Footnote
[^ 1] See Chapter 7, Privacy and Confidentiality [ 1 USCIS-PM A.7].
Chapter 9 - Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination
A. Feedback
Information on providing feedback is available on the USCIS website, including on the Contact Us  and
Feedback Opportunities  webpages.
1. USCIS Contact Center
Through a brief and confidential survey solicited by email from the USCIS Contact Center , USCIS
collects feedback on benefit requestors’  interactions with the agency . USCIS sends the survey to any
benefit requestor who interacts with the Contact Center , including by phone, live chat, or secure
message.
2. In-Person Appointments
Benefit requestors may provide feedback by asking to talk to a supervisor , if available, while at the in-
person appointment.
Benefit requestors may submit fraud, waste, and abuse allegations directly to DHS’ s Office of
Inspector General (OIG). USCIS posts information on reporting fraud and employee misconduct on
the Contact Us  webpage and in the waiting rooms of USCIS field of fices.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 199/2618