Include the P AP’s and any AMH’ s response to the question on whether they have been the
subject of any prior home studies;
If applicable, identify the agency involved in each prior or terminated home study and the dates
the prior home study process began and ended;
If applicable, indicate the outcome of the home study , including whether a favorable
recommendation was made, or if the home study was terminated before a recommendation was
made, why it was terminated;
If applicable, indicate if the prior home study is available, and if not, include an explanation why;
and
If applicable, include an evaluation of the relevance of any prior unfavorable or incomplete home
study on the P AP’s suitability .
3. Supporting Documentation
The P AP or any AMH must submit to the home study preparer , for the home study preparer to
consider in the home study assessment, a copy of any previous rejections or unfavorable home
studies. Copies of any such available prior home studies must be attached to the home study .
K. Preparation and T raining
1. Required Assessment
The P AP must receive the required number of hours of preparation and training unless an exemption
applies.[49] The home study preparer must ensure the P AP receives the required preparation and
training necessary to promote a successful intercountry adoption,[50] including discussing with the
PAP:
The intercountry adoption process, including the requirements, expenses, challenges, and
timeframes; and
The adjustment of adopted children and parenting.
The home study preparer must tailor the preparation and training to the P AP’s particular situation.[51]
2. Required Home Study Content
The home study must contain a summary of:[52]
The preparation and training given to the P AP(s);
Plans for future preparation and training; and
Any plans for post-placement monitoring, in the event the child will be adopted in the United
States rather than outside the United States.
L. Country-Specific Requirements8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 914/2618