Job loss may be suf ficient to establish severe financial loss for a person, depending on the individual
circumstances. For example, the inability to travel for work that would result in job loss might warrant
expedited treatment. The need to obtain employment authorization, standing alone, without evidence
of other compelling factors, does not warrant expedited treatment.
In addition, severe financial loss may also be established where failure to expedite would result in a
loss of critical public benefits or services.
2. Expedited T reatment Based on Emergency or Urgent Humanitarian Situations
In the context of an expedite request, an emergency or urgent humanitarian situation is a pressing or
critical circumstance related to human welfare. Human welfare means issues related to the well-being
of a person or group. Examples include, but are not limited to, illness, disability , death of a family
member or close friend, or extreme living conditions, such as those caused by natural catastrophes or
armed conflict.
USCIS considers requests related to a requestor ’s individual welfare and requests that are related to
the welfare of others. For example, to facilitate the well-being of an individual, USCIS may expedite a
benefit request where a vulnerable person’ s safety may be otherwise compromised. To facilitate the
well-being of others, for example, USCIS may expedite employment authorization for healthcare
workers during a pandemic.
Certain benefit requests, such as asylum applications, refugee applications, and requests for
humanitarian parole, by their nature involve urgent humanitarian situations. Therefore, filing a
humanitarian-based benefit, standing alone, without evidence of other time-sensitive or compelling
factors, generally may not warrant expedited treatment under this criterion.[3]
Travel-Related Requests
USCIS considers expedited processing of an Application for Travel Documents, Parole Documents,
and Arrival/Departure Records ( Form I-131 ) when there is a pressing or critical need for an applicant
to travel outside the United States.
Expedited processing of a travel document may be warranted when there is an unexpected event,
such as the pressing or critical need to travel outside the United States to obtain medical treatment in
a limited amount of time, or due to the death or grave illness of a family member or close friend.
Expedited processing of a travel document may also be warranted when there is a pressing or critical
need to travel outside the United States for a planned event, but processing times prevent USCIS from
issuing the travel document by the planned date of departure. When the need to expedite issuance of
a travel document is related to a planned event, USCIS considers whether the applicant timely filed
the Form I-131  or timely responded to a request for evidence.[4]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 165/2618