The following situations are examples of when applicants are eligible for cross-chargeability:
Examples of Eligibility for Cross-Chargeability
If a V isa is … And a V isa is … Then Charge the …
Available for principal
applicantNot available for
derivative spouseDerivative spouse’ s visa to the principal
applicant’ s country of chargeability
Not available for principal
applicantAvailable for
derivative spousePrincipal applicant’ s visa to the derivative
spouse’ s country of chargeability
Available for principal
applicant and derivative
spouseNot available for
derivative childDerivative child’ s visa to either parent’ s
more favorable country of chargeability
Processing Requests for Cross-Chargeability
If a principal applicant is filing along with a derivative spouse or child and a visa appears unavailable
at first glance, the of ficer should check the A-files for possible cross-chargeability eligibility . Often, an
applicant will af firmatively request use of cross-chargeability when filing the application. In all cases
where cross-chargeability provisions apply , the files should be forwarded to the adjudicating of ficer
with a notation that indicates possible cross-chargeability . The files should be kept together in a family
pack.
D. Determine Admissibility
Immigration laws specify acts, conditions, and conduct that can make aliens ineligible for adjustment
of status. These acts, conditions, and conduct are outlined in INA 212 and are called “grounds of
inadmissibility .”
Admissibility requirements may vary based on the adjustment of status category sought. If the of ficer
determines that the applicant is not inadmissible under any applicable grounds, then the of ficer may
move on to other aspects of the adjudication. If the of ficer determines the applicant is inadmissible, the
applicant may need a waiver or other form of relief to address the inadmissibility . The of ficer must
confirm that the applicant is admissible to the United States or that any inadmissibilities are waived
before making a final determination on an adjustment application.[51]
1. Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record (Form I-693)
Adjustment applicants who must show they are not inadmissible on health-related grounds are
typically required to undergo an immigration medical examination performed by a USCIS-designated
civil surgeon in the United States.[52] The civil surgeon records the results of the medical exam on the
Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ), which is then
reviewed by the of ficer upon adjudication of the adjustment application. Some adjustment applicants8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1466/2618