One or more convictions for alcohol-related driving incidents where the conviction was a felony
in the jurisdiction in which it occurred or where a sentence of incarceration was actually imposed;
One arrest/conviction for alcohol-related driving incidents within the preceding 5 years;[8] or
Two or more arrests/convictions for alcohol-related driving incidents within the
preceding 10 years.[9]
If the of ficer finds that the criminal record appears to contradict the civil surgeon’ s finding in the
medical examination report, then the of ficer should request a re-examination.
Example : An applicant’ s criminal record shows that she was convicted for DWI-related vehicular
manslaughter . However , the medical examination report reflects that no Class A or B physical or
mental disorder was found. In this case, the of ficer should request a re-examination because the
medical examination report finding should have reflected that the applicant has a history relating to an
alcohol-related driving incident that could indicate a physical or mental disorder with associated
harmful behavior . 
3. Determination Based on Re-Examination
Upon completion of the re-examination, the of ficer should determine whether the applicant is
inadmissible. If the civil surgeon annotated a Class A condition, the applicant is inadmissible. If no
Class A condition is certified by the civil surgeon, the of ficer may not determine that the applicant is
inadmissible. In exceptional cases, the of ficer may seek review of the civil surgeon’ s determination
from CDC.
If the applicant is inadmissible, he or she may file an application for waiver of inadmissibility .[10]
C. Relevance of Other Evidence
The guidance relating to alcohol-related driving arrests or convictions described above applies to any
similar scenario where the record of proceeding contains evidence that may indicate inadmissibility
due to a mental or physical disorder with associated harmful behavior that was not considered by the
civil surgeon in the original medical examination. Such evidence includes, but is not limited to:
A prior finding of inadmissibility due to a mental disorder;
A history of institutionalization for a mental disorder;
A criminal history other than drunk driving arrests/convictions, such as assaults and domestic
violence, in which alcohol or a psychoactive substance was a contributing factor;
Any other evidence that suggests an alcohol problem; or
Other criminal arrests where there is a reasonable possibility of a mental disorder as a
contributing factor .
Accordingly , where the record of proceeding available to the of ficer contains evidence suggestive of a
mental disorder , and the Form I-693  medical report does not reflect that the evidence was considered8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1915/2618