The of ficer should closely question the applicant regarding all variations of names used, including
foreign variations of any Anglicized names. An of ficer should pay particular attention to the name the
applicant used upon arrival in the United States. Information gathered concerning the applicant’ s
name may provide data that an of ficer can use to search relevant systems for information on the
applicant’ s entry .
Date of Last Arrival in the United States
If the applicant has been absent from the United States on at least one occasion since the entry
claimed on the application for registry , an of ficer should question the applicant to obtain all the facts
regarding the date, place, manner of departure and reentry , and the purpose of each absence. An
officer may need to verify each departure and reentry from USCIS records if the applicant’ s file does
not contain the information. A temporary absence does not necessarily break the continuity of the
applicant’ s residence. Therefore, an of ficer must determine whether the evidence establishes that the
applicant’ s absence did or did not break the continuity of residence. In any case where the applicant
departed under an order of exclusion or deportation, continuity of residence is considered broken.
Membership in Organizations
If other evidence of the applicant’ s continuity of residence is missing, an applicant’ s organizational
membership or association records may be helpful regarding the period of the applicant’ s
membership. Membership in organizations includes unions, clubs, and religious or community entities.
An of ficer should question the applicant about the nature of any organization in which the applicant
has been involved. When appropriate, an of ficer should check against the list of Foreign Terrorist
Organizations  designated by the Secretary of State.[27]
Violations of Law
The statute specifically bars from registry those applicants who are found to be
inadmissible “as it relates to criminals, procurers and other immoral persons, subversives, violators
of the narcotics laws or smugglers of aliens.”[28] Therefore, an of ficer should elicit information from the
applicant about any criminal history to determine if the applicant meets the eligibility requirements and
ensure the applicant is admissible to the United States. 
Request for Exemption or Discharge from T raining or Service in the U.S. Armed Forces
An applicant who is ineligible to citizenship is barred from registry .[29] For this reason, an of ficer
should review any information in the Selective Service System to determine if the applicant is eligible
for registry . 
If the applicant was classified as “4-C – Alien or Dual National - Sometimes Exempt from Military
Service” by the Selective Service System, the of ficer should further inquire to determine if the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1850/2618