Humanitarian Parolees 
Persons throughout the world who are facing a humanitarian crisis may be paroled into the United
States. Sometimes these are extended family members of refugees or asylees who cannot be
approved on a relative petition. They may be similar to Lautenberg parolees in that they do not qualify
for refugee status but are facing some type of hardship. These aliens generally have no means to
adjust status based on their parole. 
Illegal Entrants
Some illegal entrants may consider themselves to be refugees because they are fleeing someone or
some place. They may have applied for asylum status and been denied, entered the United
States without inspection or overstayed their nonimmigrant visa. 
Iraqi and Afghan T ranslators
While some Iraqi and Afghan nationals are admitted as refugees, others may be admitted into
the United States based on their service to the United States Armed Forces as a translator
or interpreter (SI-1 classification). These aliens are not refugees. The holder of a SI-1 classification
will have an approved Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), Or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) in order
to apply for adjustment of status. Iraqi nationals and citizens with an approved Form I-360 do not
adjust status as a refugee but rather as employment-based 4th preference special immigrants. 
Iraqi Employees Who Worked On or Behalf of the U.S. Government
Section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008[4] authorizes special
immigrant status (SQ-1 classification) for Iraqi nationals who worked for or on behalf of the U.S.
government in Iraq on or after March 20, 2003 to be admitted to the United States or adjust to
immigrant status. These aliens are not refugees. The holder of a SQ-1 classification must have an
approved Form I-360  in order to apply for adjustment of status. Iraqi nationals and citizens with
an approved Form I-360 do not adjust status as a refugee but rather as employment-based
4th preference special immigrants. 
Afghan Allies
The Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 authorizes special immigrant status (SQ-1 classification) for
Afghan nationals who worked for or on behalf of the U.S. government to be admitted to the United
States or adjust to immigrant status. These aliens are not refugees. The holder of the SQ-1
classification must have an approved Form I-360  in order to apply for adjustment of status.
Afghan nationals and citizens with an approved Form I-360 do not adjust status as a refugee but
rather as employment-based 4th preference special immigrants. 
Aliens Erroneously Admitted to the United States as Refugees8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1790/2618