Acts and Amendments Key Changes
be helpful" in the "investigation or prosecution" of that
crime.
Established a list of QCA  categories.
Violence Against W omen and
Department of Justice
Reauthorization Act of
2005[12]Clarified that the duration of status for an initial grant of U
nonimmigrant status is 4 years.
Clarified that aliens in the United States on K visas (fiancé(e)
or spouse) and S visas (informant), or persons admitted
under the visa waiver program, are not prohibited from
qualifying for U nonimmigrant status.
Clarified that aliens who came to the United States on J visas
to receive graduate medical training, and aliens who are
subject to the 2-year foreign residence requirement, may also
qualify for U nonimmigrant status.
Established discretion for DHS to grant stays of removal to
petitioners for U nonimmigrant status who have received
prima facie determinations.
Established a prohibition on adverse determinations of
admissibility or deportability based on information provided to
DHS by abusers or perpetrators of QCA.
William Wilberforce Trafficking
Victims Protection
Reauthorization Act of
2008[13]Clarified that the duration of status for an initial grant of U
nonimmigrant status is up to 4 years.
Provided for extensions of status based on law enforcement
need or exceptional circumstances, or while an application for
adjustment of status is pending.
Provided discretion to grant employment authorization to an
alien who has a pending, bona fide petition for U
nonimmigrant status.
Violence Against W omen
Reauthorization Act of
2013[14]Provided age-out protection by preserving the age of certain
family members at the time the principal petitioner files his or
her petition for U nonimmigrant status.
Provided that the exception for disclosure to law enforcement
officials for a legitimate law enforcement purpose must be in
a manner that protects confidentiality of the information.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 723/2618