USCIS encourages requestors to submit their address change online using the Enterprise Change of
Address (E-COA) self-service tool.
Aliens who do not have any pending applications, petitions, or requests can use the E-COA  tool to
meet the requirement to notify USCIS they have moved, eliminating the need for them to submit a
paper Alien’ s Change of Address Card ( Form AR-1 1).
Requestors who have pending applications, petitions, or other benefit requests can use the E-COA
tool to both meet the notification requirement and update their mailing and physical address with
USCIS for such pending cases. When using E-COA, requestors should include the receipt numbers
for all cases for which they would like their address updated.
The E-COA  tool provides for a near-immediate change of address, helping to minimize risk of
requestors not receiving correspondence and benefits in a timely manner . Requestors can access the
E-COA  tool through a USCIS online account and use it for all pending cases, regardless of whether
the case was filed online or by mail.
The E-COA  tool automates address changes for almost all form types.[5] Certain populations,
however , may need to follow special procedures for change of address requests and are therefore
unable to use this tool. These populations include, but are not limited to:
Protected persons;[6]
Certain intercountry adoption-based petitioners and applicants (for orphan and Hague
intercountry adoption cases);[7]
Certain special immigrant Afghan or Iraqi nationals;
Attorneys and accredited representatives seeking to change their of fice address;
Civil surgeons;
U.S. citizens or nationals who have submitted an af fidavit of support for another person; and
Certain people with international addresses.
If a requestor falls into one of the above categories, they should visit the How to Change Your Address
webpage for information on changing their address instead of using the E-COA  tool.
B. Updating Address by U.S. Mail
Aliens may choose to file a Form AR-1 1 by U.S. mail to meet the requirement to notify USCIS they
have moved. Some aliens may choose to send a signed written notice by mail to meet the requirement
to notify USCIS they have moved.[8] However , mailing a paper Form AR-1 1 or signed written notice of
an address change does not provide for near immediate processing of a change of address request
like the E-COA  online tool or the USCIS Contact Center .[9] If a requestor has a pending benefit
request, filing the Form AR-1 1 or signed written notice of an address change by mail may increase the
risk that important correspondence or benefits are sent to an outdated address.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 205/2618