school, whichever date is earlier . For a student authorized to engage in post-completion Optional
Practical Training (OPT), the student must be able to resume classes within 5 months of transferring
out of the current school that recommended OPT  or by the date the OPT  authorization ends,
whichever is earlier .
An F-1 student’ s authorization to engage in OPT  employment is automatically terminated when the
student transfers to another school or begins study at another educational level.[6]
B. M-1 Students
1. Eligibility
A nonimmigrant admitted as an M-1 student or who changes status to M-1 may not transfer to another
school after 6 months from the date of admission as or change of status to an M-1 student. However ,
there is an exception if the student was unable to remain at the school which initially admitted the
student due to circumstances beyond the student’ s control.
An M-1 student may be otherwise eligible to transfer to another school if the student:
Is a bona fide nonimmigrant;
Has been pursuing a full course of study at the school the student was last authorized to attend;
Intends to pursue a full course of study at the school to which the student intends to transfer; and
Is financially able to attend the school to which the student intends to transfer .
2. Procedure
An M-1 student must apply to USCIS on an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status ( Form
I-539 ), for permission to transfer between schools. The student must first notify the student’ s current
school (the transfer-out school) of the intent to transfer and indicate the school to which the student
intends to transfer (the transfer-in school).
Upon notification by the student, the transfer-out school must update SEVIS to show the student is
transferring out, indicate the transfer-in school, and input the release date for transfer . Once the
transfer-out school updates SEVIS, the transfer-in school generates a Form I-20  for transfer . However ,
the transfer-in school will not gain access to the student’ s SEVIS record until the release date. Upon
receipt of the Form I-20 from the transfer-in school, the student must submit a Form I-539 .[7]
The student may enroll in the transfer-in school at the next available term or session and is required to
notify the DSO of the transfer-in school immediately upon beginning attendance. The transfer-in
school must update the student’ s registration record in SEVIS.[8]
If USCIS approves the application, the program start date listed on the Form I-20  is the approval
transfer date, and the student is granted an extension of stay for the lesser of the period of time
necessary to complete the new course of study plus 30 days, or for a total period of 1 year . If USCIS8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 392/2618