case basis.
The CPR bears the burden of proof to establish eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence.
3. Intended Spouse
The V iolence Against W omen Act of 2013 (V AWA 2013) provided protection to abused CPRs who
believed that they entered into a valid marriage with a U.S. citizen, but the marriage was invalid due to
bigamy on the part of the intended U.S. citizen spouse.[41] In such cases, the CPR may be eligible for
a waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty perpetrated by the intended spouse. To qualify , the CPR
must meet the following criteria: 
The CPR’ s petitioning spouse, through whom the CPR obtained conditional permanent
residence, battered or subjected the CPR to extreme cruelty;
The CPR believed that a legal marriage was created with the U.S. citizen spouse who was not
already married and therefore free to enter into a valid marriage;
A marriage ceremony was actually performed; and
The CPR otherwise met all applicable requirements to establish the bona fides of a marriage.[42]
CPRs must submit evidence to demonstrate that they believed that they entered into a legally valid
marriage in good faith with the U.S. citizen. USCIS focuses its inquiry on the intent of the CPR and not
on that of the alleged abuser .
The intended spouse provision does not extend to CPR children who file separately from their CPR
parent, but CPR parents who are applying under the intended spouse provision may include their CPR
children who are eligible to be included on the CPR parent’ s own waiver filing.[43]
If USCIS grants a battery or extreme cruelty waiver for a CPR who unwittingly entered into a bigamous
marriage as described above, the of ficer annotates the case accordingly . 
4. Confidentiality Protections and Safe Address
In accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1367 , USCIS protects the confidentiality of any information concerning an
abused CPR spouse or child, including, but not limited to, information regarding the whereabouts of
the spouse or child or whether the abused CPR spouse or child has filed a waiver based on battery or
extreme cruelty .[44]
Officers are prohibited from making an adverse determination of admissibility , deportability , or
removability on a protected person using information furnished solely by a prohibited source. The
officer must not use information provided by the following prohibited sources to make an adverse
determination:
The abuser , or perpetrator of the of fense; 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1390/2618