Part A - Admissibility Policies and Procedures
Part B - Health-Related Grounds of Inadmissibility
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
The medical grounds of inadmissibility , the medical examination of aliens, and the vaccinations
administered to aliens are designed to protect the health of the United States population. The
immigration medical examination, the resulting medical examination report, and the vaccination record
provide the information USCIS uses to determine if an applicant meets the health-related standards
for admissibility .
Four basic medical conditions may make an applicant inadmissible on health-related grounds:
Communicable disease of public health significance,
Failure to show proof of required vaccinations,
Physical or mental disorder with associated harmful behavior , and
Drug abuse or addiction.
B. Background
Public health concerns have been reflected in U.S. immigration law since the Immigration Act of 1882.
[1] Among others, “persons suf fering from a loathsome or a dangerous contagious disease” were not
allowed to enter the United States.[2] In 1990, Congress revised and consolidated all of the grounds of
inadmissibility . It narrowed health-related grounds of inadmissibility to include only aliens with
communicable diseases, physical or mental disorders with associated harmful behavior , or those with
drug abuse or addiction problems.[3]
As of 1996, Congress requires all immigrant visa and adjustment of status applicants to establish that
they have been vaccinated against certain vaccine-preventable diseases.[4]
C. Role of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
Because medical knowledge and public health concerns can and do change over time, Congress gave
the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the authority to designate by regulations which
conditions make an alien inadmissible on health-related grounds.
The HHS component charged with defining these medical conditions is the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC). CDC’ s responsibilities include:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1887/2618