In all cases, the applicant has the burden of proving the father has met any applicable requirements
under the law to make an agreement to provide financial support. A written agreement of financial
support is not required if the father died before the child’ s 18th birthday .[26]
Written Agreement Requirements
In order for a document to qualify as a written agreement of financial support under INA 309(a)(3) , the
document:
Must be in writing and acknowledged by the father;[27]
Must indicate the father ’s agreement to provide financial support for the child;[28] and
Must be dated before the child’ s 18th birthday .
In addition, USCIS considers whether the agreement was voluntary .
Other Acceptable Documentation
A written agreement of financial support may come in dif ferent forms and documents. USCIS may
consider other similar documentation in which the father accepts financial responsibility of the child
until the age of 18. Some examples of documents USCIS may consider include:
A previously submitted Affidavit of Support ( Form I-134 ) or Affidavit of Support Under Section
213A  of the INA  (Form I-864 );
Military Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) enrollment;
Written voluntary acknowledgement of a child in a jurisdiction where there is a legal requirement
that the father provide financial support;[29]
Documentation establishing paternity by a court or administrative agency with jurisdiction over
the child’ s personal status, if accompanied by evidence from the record of proceeding
establishing the father initiated the paternity proceeding and the jurisdiction legally requires the
father to provide financial support; or
A petition by the father seeking child custody or visitation with the court of jurisdiction with an
agreement to provide financial support and the jurisdiction legally requires the father to provide
financial support.
2. Child of U.S. Citizen Mother
The rules that determine whether a child born out of wedlock outside of the United States derives
citizenship at birth from the U.S. citizen mother vary depending on when the child was born. 
Child Born On or After December 23, 1952 and Before June 12, 2017
A child born between December 23, 1952 and June 12, 2017 who is born out of wedlock outside of the
United States and its outlying possessions acquires citizenship at birth if:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2475/2618