800-767-1833), use the online accommodations request form  in order to request an accommodation,
or request an accommodation with the field of fice at any time during the naturalization process.
2. Oral W riting T est
An of ficer should administer the writing portion of the naturalization test orally for applicants with
physical impairments, which cause limited or no use of their hands in a way as to preclude the
applicant’ s ability to write. The applicant may satisfy the writing requirements by spelling out the words
from the writing test. 
3. Allowing Nonverbal Communication
An of ficer may accept forms of nonverbal communication, such as blinking, head shaking or nodding,
tapping, or other ef fective forms of nonverbal communication during the naturalization examination.
The of ficer should also allow the applicant to point to answers on the application and allow the
applicant to write out the answers to the civics test if the applicant is not able to communicate verbally .
Prior to the start of the naturalization examination, the of ficer, the applicant, and the applicant’ s
representative (if any) should agree to the form of communication.
4. Providing Sign Language Interpreters
In determining what type of accommodation is necessary for deaf or hard of hearing applicants,
USCIS gives primary consideration to the requests of the person with a disability . 
The field of fice must provide a sign language interpreter for a deaf or hard of hearing applicant upon
his or her request.[11] An applicant may bring an interpreter of his or her choosing. To request a sign
language interpreter , applicants should call the USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY : 800-
767-1833), use the online accommodations request form  in order to request an accommodation,
or request an accommodation with the field of fice at any time during the naturalization process.
The of ficer should use any communication aids for the deaf or hard of hearing where available, permit
the applicant to read lips, and allow the applicant to answer the of ficer’s questions in writing, as
needed.
C. Accommodations for the Oath of Allegiance
A disability or medical impairment may make it dif ficult for some applicants to take the Oath of
Allegiance at the oath ceremony . The table below lists examples of accommodations to the Oath of
Allegiance. The paragraphs that follow the table provide further guidance on each accommodation.
Some applicants may qualify for a waiver of the Oath of Allegiance.[12]
Accommodations for the Oath of Allegiance8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2296/2618