If a requestor contacts the field of fice, ASC, or asylum of fice directly to request a disability
accommodation for an interview , the of fice may enter a service request into the Service Request
Management Tool (SRMT) to work with the requestor to respond to the request, and mark the request
as fulfilled when it is complete so that the request and the response are recorded.
Offices are encouraged to provide reasonable accommodation requests made by walk-ins whenever
practical. If the accommodation is not available, the of fice should inform the requestor that the of fice is
not able to provide the accommodation at that time, but that arrangements can be made to provide the
accommodation for a future appointment or event.
3. USCIS Review
USCIS evaluates each request for a reasonable accommodation on a case-by-case basis.  The Public
Disability Access Coordinator must generally concur on any alternative accommodation of fered or any
accommodation denial before the of fice communicates either action to the requestor .
While a requestor is not required to include documentation of a medical condition in support of a
reasonable accommodation request, an of fice may need documentation to evaluate the request in rare
cases. In these situations, the of fice must consult the Public Disability Access Coordinator for
guidance before the USCIS of fice requests medical documentation to support an accommodation
request.
4. Review T imeframe
In general, the af fected USCIS of fice determines whether it may reasonably comply with the
accommodation request within 7 calendar days of receiving the request, unless unusual
circumstances exist.
If an accommodation is warranted, it should be provided on the date and time of the scheduled event;
rescheduling should be avoided, if possible. If an accommodation cannot be provided for the originally
scheduled event, the requestor should be notified as soon as possible. Any rescheduling should occur
within a reasonable period of time.
5. Reconsideration of Denied Request
To request a reconsideration of a denial of a disability accommodation request, the requestor should
call the USCIS Contact Center and provide any new information they have in support of their request.
Upon receiving the request, the relevant of fice must review the prior request and any additional
information provided. The of fice should contact the requestor if additional information is needed.
Generally , all af firmed denials must be approved by the Public Disability Access Coordinator , the field
office director , ASC manager , or asylum of fice director , whichever applies.
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 171/2618