2. Approved Petition to a Pending Petition
The beneficiary of an approved petition with a pending adjustment application may replace the
approved petition with a pending petition as the new basis for the pending adjustment application in
certain categories. The new basis must allow for filing of an adjustment application prior to approval of
the petition (concurrent filing), or the transfer cannot occur and should be denied. 
3. Pending Petition to an Approved Petition
An adjustment applicant with a concurrently filed and pending immigrant visa petition may replace the
pending petition with an already approved petition as the basis for the pending adjustment
application. 
4. Pending Petition to a Pending Petition
An adjustment applicant with a concurrently filed and pending petition may request to transfer the
adjustment application to another pending petition, provided that the new basis allows for the filing of
the adjustment application prior to approval of the underlying petition.
D. Portability Provisions
The portability provisions of the American Competitiveness in the Twenty-First Century Act (AC21)
[13] allow certain adjustment applicants with approved employment-based immigrant visa petitions in
the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd preference categories to change jobs and employers if the adjustment
application has been pending for 180 days or more, provided that the applicant’ s new job of fer is in the
same or similar occupational classification as the job for which the petition was initially filed.
Adjustment applicants are not eligible for portability if their approved immigrant visa petitions are
based on classification as an alien with extraordinary ability or alien for whom USCIS has waived the
job of fer and labor certification requirements in the national interest.[14]
If an employment-based applicant requests to transfer the adjustment application to a dif ferent
employment-based category based on a new Form I-140, the applicant may not utilize the portability
provisions, if applicable, until 180 days or more after making the transfer request. The applicant’ s new
job of fer must be in the same or similar occupational classification as the job for which the petition was
initially filed. In essence, transferring the basis of the adjustment application resets the adjudication
clock for purposes of portability eligibility .[15] 
National Interest W aiver Physicians
Physicians, including specialty care physicians who work in a Physician Scarcity Area, with an
approved immigrant petition based on a national interest waiver (NIW) may be employed by a
petitioning employer or self-employed. These physicians agree to work full-time in clinical practice in
either a V eterans Affairs (V A) health care facility or in a geographical area or areas designated by the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1507/2618