Children born to the marriage;[23] and
Any other evidence that USCIS considers relevant.[24]
In general, the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) permits a CPR to file a Form I-751 waiver if the
CPR is not at fault in failing to meet the joint filing requirement.[25] While there is no binding legal
guidance on how to apply the “at fault” requirement, it has not been interpreted to mean that the CPR
is at fault for the terminated marriage. Therefore, it does not matter if the CPR left the marriage or
initiated divorce proceedings. The CPR does not need to establish that the CPR is not at fault for the
terminated marriage.
2. Separated But Not Yet Divorced
A CPR is only eligible for a good faith (divorce) waiver if the parties have already terminated the
qualifying marriage.[26] There is no basis for a waiver of the joint filing requirement based on a legal or
informal separation.
Initially Filed Joint Petition
If USCIS receives a Form I-751  filed jointly by a CPR and the petitioning spouse and the spouses are
still married but legally separated or in pending divorce or annulment proceedings, USCIS issues
a Request for Evidence (RFE).[27] In the RFE, USCIS asks the CPR to provide a copy of the final
divorce decree or annulment along with a written request stating that the CPR would like to have the
joint petition amended to a waiver based on divorce.
This gives the CPR an opportunity to provide evidence that the divorce or annulment proceedings
were finalized and request a waiver of the joint filing requirement without refiling. The legal termination
of the qualifying marriage may occur during the response period to the RFE, giving the CPR the
opportunity to establish eligibility for the waiver , even if the CPR did not qualify at the time of filing.
The CPR is also responsible for proactively notifying USCIS of a separation or pending or finalized
divorce or annulment proceedings, even if no RFE is issued. In these instances, the CPR should
contact the USCIS of fice that issued the receipt notice or most recent correspondence.
If the CPR provides evidence that the divorce or annulment is final and requests that USCIS amend
the joint petition, then USCIS amends the petition to indicate that the CPR is applying for a waiver of
the joint filing requirement based on termination of the qualifying marriage. USCIS then determines
whether there is suf ficient evidence that the CPR spouse entered the qualifying marriage in good faith.
If the CPR does not respond to the RFE, USCIS may issue a denial for failure to respond
(abandonment denial).
If the CPR’ s response does not include evidence that the qualifying marriage was terminated, and the
CPR does not provide such evidence, the CPR is not eligible to amend the joint petition to a waiver .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1387/2618