Department of Health and Human Services (HHS designated shortage area). This program was
initially commonly referred to as the Conrad 20 program and is now referred to as the Conrad 30
program.[14]
4. Electronic System to Collect Information
In 1996, Congress enacted the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996
(IIRIRA).[15] IIRIRA  required the legacy Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to collect current
information from schools and exchange programs relating to nonimmigrant foreign students and
exchange visitors during the course of their stay in the United States. IIRIRA  authorized legacy INS to
create an electronic system to collect information on F , M, and J nonimmigrants to address the
problem of F , M, and J nonimmigrants who are out of status and remain in the United States without
authorization.
After September 1 1, 2001, Congress updated the legislation to mandate the use of an electronic
system to collect information on all F , M, and J nonimmigrants. To meet this mandate, DHS and DOS
deployed the Student and Exchange V isitor Information System (SEVIS), a web-based information
system that tracks and monitors F , M, and J nonimmigrants and their dependents throughout the
duration of approved participation within the U.S. education system or designated exchange visitor
program.[16]
IIRIRA  also imposed new terms and conditions on INA  212(e) waivers granted to foreign medical
graduates that are based on a request by an interested U.S. government agency (federal program).
The terms and conditions are the same as those applied to waivers requested by a state department
of public health.[17]
 5. Adding Air Flight, Language, and V ocational Schools
In 2001, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept
and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA  PATRIOT  Act) became law and added air flight schools,
language training schools, and vocational schools to the schools that must comply with SEVIS
requirements. It also authorized $36.8 million for SEVIS implementation.[18]
The Enhanced Border Security and V isa Entry Reform Act (EBSVER) amended Section 641 of IIRIRA
by requiring additional features to be incorporated into SEVIS.[19] In 2006, DOS determined that it did
not have the expertise and resources to fully monitor its J-1 exchange visitor flight training programs
and ensure their compliance with program requirements. Consequently , DOS announced that it would
no longer designate any new J-1 visa flight training programs, nor would it permit currently designated
flight training programs to expand.[20]
C. Legal Authorities8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 342/2618