purpose.[63] This may include situations where an applicant returned to the United States to pursue
civil, administrative, or criminal remedies related to their traf ficking.[64]
Where the applicant reentered the United States (by any means) and their physical presence is on
account of their past or current participation in investigative or judicial processes, they are considered
physically present on account of traf ficking, regardless of where such traf ficking occurred. To satisfy
this ground, the applicant’ s presence must be directly connected to the applicant’ s participation in an
investigation or judicial process related to the traf ficking.
Establishing Presence Based on Receipt of T reatment or Services Related to V ictimization
Where the applicant reentered the United States (by any means) and their physical presence is
related to their receipt of treatment or services related to their victimization that cannot be provided in
their home country or last place of residence outside the United States, they are considered physically
present on account of their traf ficking.[65] To satisfy this ground, the applicant must provide evidence
of the treatment or services they received in the United States, as well as evidence that such
treatment or services is not available in their home country or last place of residence outside the
United States.
D. Requests for Law Enforcement Assistance
1. General Rule
An applicant for T nonimmigrant status is required to comply with any reasonable request for
assistance in a federal, state, or local investigation or prosecution of acts of traf ficking in persons or
the investigation of a crime where an act of traf ficking in persons is at least one central reason for the
commission of that crime.[66] If an of ficer determines that a request was reasonable and no
exceptions or exemptions apply , the of ficer then examines whether an applicant complied with the
request.
An LEA  includes any federal, state, tribal, or local LEA, prosecutor , judge, labor agency , children’ s
protective services agency , adult protective services agency , or other authority that has the
responsibility and authority for the detection, investigation, or prosecution of severe forms of traf ficking
in persons.[67] Federal LEAs include, but are not limited to the following:
U.S. Department of Justice agencies, including U.S. Marshals Service, Of fices of the United
States Attorneys, and Civil Rights and Criminal Divisions;
U.S. Department of Homeland Security agencies, including U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection;
U.S. Department of State agencies, including Diplomatic Security Service;
U.S. Department of Labor agencies;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 663/2618