Appendix: Case Law References for T Visa Adjudications [ 3 USCIS-PM B, Appendices Tab] lists
decisions that may provide additional clarification on the concept of compensation.
Labor or Services Might Include Non-T raditional T ypes of Work
When analyzing whether a person has been subjected to involuntary servitude or peonage, USCIS
considers that the labor or services might include non-traditional types of work. Appendix: Case Law
References for T Visa Adjudications [ 3 USCIS-PM B, Appendices Tab] lists decisions that may provide
additional clarification on the concepts of non-traditional work. Compelled labor or services provided in
the context of a familial or intimate partner relationship may satisfy the definition.
For example, in certain contexts, domestic labor may constitute forced labor and satisfy the
involuntary servitude assessment, when the actions are induced by force, fraud, or coercion and
where the perpetrator had a goal of securing the forced labor or services for the purpose of subjecting
the victim to a condition of servitude.
In addition, other non-traditional types of work, including situations where a victim is forced or coerced
to engage in criminal behavior (such as drug traf ficking or theft), may also constitute forced labor or
services when the actions are induced by force, fraud, or coercion, and where the perpetrator had a
goal of securing the forced labor or services for the purpose of subjecting the victim to a condition of
servitude.[32] USCIS evaluates such situations on a case-by-case basis, considering all relevant
circumstances. USCIS retains the authority to request relevant criminal records, including arrest or
police reports, trial transcripts, criminal complaints and indictments, and conviction records.
No Defined Length of T ime Required
To establish that they are or have been a victim of traf ficking and have been compelled to perform the
labor or services, applicants do not need to show that they were victimized for a defined length of time.
For example, in the context of involuntary servitude, the duration of time can be of varying length and
may be short in duration.[33]
However , the totality of the circumstances must establish that the nature of the work was intended to
create a condition of servitude. Appendix: Case Law References for T Visa Adjudications [ 3 USCIS-
PM B, Appendices Tab] lists decisions that may provide additional clarification on the concept of
timeframes.
The labor or services at issue also do not have to be coerced in every instance. There could be time
periods in which the labor or services were voluntary and time periods in which they were involuntary .
However , the labor or services must have been involuntary for at least some portion of the time that
the applicant was performing the work to constitute labor traf ficking.
There is no requirement regarding the length of time the labor or services are performed or the means
used to induce the acts. Nevertheless, the applicant must establish that the traf ficker acted for the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 656/2618