4. Exceptions to General Rule: Relationship and Age-Out Protections
There are certain protections available to family members whose age or relationship changes after the
principal files an application for T nonimmigrant status.
Protection for New Child of a Principal Applicant
If the T-1 principal applicant had a child after filing the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status, the
child is eligible to accompany or follow to join the T-1 principal applicant.[15] This includes becoming
the parent of a child by means of a biological, step,[16] or adoptive relationship.
Age-Out Protection for Eligible Family Members of a Principal Applicant Under 21 Years of Age
For principal applicants who were under 21 years of age when they filed for T-1 nonimmigrant status,
USCIS continues to consider a T-4 parent or T-5 unmarried sibling as eligible for derivative status
even if the principal applicant turns 21 before USCIS adjudicates the T-1 application.
Unmarried siblings under 18 years of age at the time the principal filed the T-1 application remain
eligible for T-5 status even if they turn 18 years of age before USCIS adjudicates the T-1 application,
so long as the sibling is unmarried.[17] The derivative sibling does not “age out” even upon reaching
age 18.
Age-Out Protection for Child of a Principal Applicant
USCIS continues to consider a T-3 child as an eligible family member so long as the child was under
21 years of age at the time the principal filed for T-1 nonimmigrant status. As long as the child is
unmarried, the child remains eligible even if the child is over 21 years of age at the time of adjudication
of the T-1 application.[18] The derivative T-3 does not “age out” even upon reaching age 21.
E. Death of Qualifying Relative
USCIS may not approve derivative status for a surviving relative whose qualifying relative (the
principal applicant) died before USCIS approved the derivative T application.[19] However , the unique
structure of the T-6 classification may provide for continuing eligibility for the T-6 derivative even if the
T-2, T-3, T-4, or T-5 derivative beneficiary dies before the principal files for T-6 status for the surviving
relative.
For example, adult children who are married or over 21 years of age could potentially qualify for T-6
nonimmigrant status if they are the children of the T-1’s deceased spouse and meet the present
danger of retaliation requirement.
However , in order for the spouse’ s children (adult or minor) to be eligible for the T-6 category under
this scenario, the principal’ s spouse must have held T-2 nonimmigrant status through the principal T-1
nonimmigrant before the T-2 spouse died. If the principal’ s spouse held T-2 status but then died before8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 692/2618