Sometimes an alien may be erroneously admitted as a refugee as indicated on their admission
document (Form I-94). This is most common with derivative asylees, humanitarian parolees,
and sometimes Lautenberg parolees. The fact that a person was admitted erroneously as a refugee
does not make that person eligible to adjust status under the refugee adjustment of status provisions.
[5] As is the case in all adjustment of status applications, an of ficer must determine if the person was
indeed admitted under the proper classification prior to making a decision on the adjustment
application.[6]
B. Physical Presence in the United States for at Least 1 Year
Refugees are required to have 1 year of physical presence in the United States at time of adjudication
of the adjustment of status application.[7] Principal and derivative refugees start accruing physical
presence on the date they are admitted as refugees to the United States. For derivative refugees who
gained derivative refugee status through an approved Form I-730  and who were in the United States
when the petition was approved, the 1 year period begins on the date the relative petition was
approved.
Because the requirement is 1 year of physical presence and not just 1 year from the date of admission
as a refugee, only time spent in the United States counts toward this requirement. Refugees who
travel outside the United States within their first year of residence as a refugee will not meet this
requirement until the cumulative amount of time spent in the United States is at least 1 year .
The of ficer reviews the refugee’ s Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form
I-485 ), the record, and USCIS systems to determine the amount of time the refugee has been present
in the United States since the date of the refugee’ s admission as a refugee (or the date of approval as
a derivative refugee for Form I-730 beneficiaries processed in the United States). The of ficer may
request additional information from the refugee to demonstrate physical presence in the United States
if the of ficer is unable to determine it based on a review of the record and USCIS systems.[8]
C. Refugee Status Has Not Been T erminated
An applicant whose refugee status has been terminated is not eligible to adjust status. Evidence of
termination of status in the applicant’ s A-file will generally include a notice of termination of status, a
Notice To Appear , and EOIR court records. Other evidence may include a notice of intent to terminate
status, interview notes, and assessment notes.[9]
D. Permanent Resident Status Has Not Already Been Acquired in the United States
Refugees who have already acquired permanent resident status are not eligible to adjust
status. Evidence of permanent resident status will most often be an approved adjustment
application already in the applicant’ s A-file. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1791/2618