Temporary blanket authorizations do not require DOS to accept a filing, but rather allow DOS to
exercise its discretion to accept a Form I-130 filed at a U.S. embassy or consulate where a petitioner
and alien beneficiary are physically present in the consular district where filed. Although DOS may
accept a local filing by a petitioner who does not reside within the post’ s jurisdiction, the temporary
blanket authorization is intended to assist those directly af fected by the disruptive event and may be
limited to event-specific dates and circumstances. Such blanket authorization is not for the purpose of
expediting the process for those who are not directly af fected.
Petitioners who are not eligible to locally file Form I-130 under a temporary blanket authorization may
still be eligible to file locally if they are otherwise eligible and establish exceptional circumstances. 
U.S. Military and Certain U.S. Government Personnel Stationed or Assigned Abroad
USCIS has granted DOS blanket authorization to accept and adjudicate clearly approvable Form I-130
immediate relative petitions filed by:
U.S. citizen military service members stationed at U.S. military bases abroad on of ficial orders;
and
U.S. citizens who are U.S. government (USG) employees assigned to a U.S. mission abroad
under Chief of Mission authority or at an of fice of the American Institute of Taiwan. 
If DOS accepts a petition under this blanket authorization, USCIS must receive notice of the filing and
information about the basis for local acceptance. This blanket authorization does not apply to U.S.
service members or USG employees stationed or assigned to non-executive branch agencies or
exceptions or exclusions to Chief of Missions Authority[13] or non-military bases, such as international
organizations or civilian institutions. It also does not apply to service members who are on temporary
duty orders or assignments, USG employees who are personal service contractors, or their eligible
family members.
The petitioner and beneficiary do not both have to be physically present in the consular jurisdiction
where the petition is filed. Qualifying petitioners do not need to establish exceptional circumstances.
This blanket authorization is not time-limited, but USCIS may revoke the authorization if warranted.
B. When the U.S. Department of State is Not Authorized to Accept and Adjudicate
Form I-130
DOS may not exercise discretion to accept local filings in certain scenarios. USCIS does not authorize
DOS to accept a local filing abroad when a petitioner based in the United States seeks to travel and
file abroad in order to expedite processing. DOS acceptance of Form I-130s abroad is intended to
assist petitioners living abroad who demonstrate exceptional circumstances as described above.
In addition, USCIS does not authorize DOS to accept a local filing abroad if the petitioner has already
filed a Form I-130 domestically for the same beneficiary . If exigent circumstances exist, the petitioner8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1065/2618