For purposes of the first step of the analysis, of ficers should consider the quality and caliber of the
evidence to determine whether a particular regulatory criterion has been met, to the extent the
criterion has qualitative requirements.[9] Officers should not yet make a determination regarding
whether or not the beneficiary is recognized internationally as outstanding in the academic field.
For example:
Participating in the judging of the work of others in the same or an allied academic field alone,
regardless of the circumstances, should satisfy the regulatory criteria in step one. However , for
the analysis in step two, the beneficiary's participation should be evaluated to determine whether
it was indicative of the beneficiary being recognized internationally as outstanding in a specific
academic area.
Authorship of scholarly books or articles (in scholarly journals with international circulation) in the
academic field alone, regardless of the caliber , should satisfy the regulatory criteria in step one.
However , for the analysis in step two, the beneficiary's authorship of books or articles should be
evaluated to determine whether they were indicative of the beneficiary being recognized
internationally as outstanding in a specific academic area.
The issue of whether the beneficiary is recognized internationally as outstanding in a specific
academic area should be addressed in the second step of the analysis (final merits determination), not
in the first step where the of ficer is only required to determine if the evidence objectively meets the
regulatory criteria.
The following tables provide details on the limited determinations that of ficers should make when first
evaluating the evidence, including comparable evidence.
Criterion 1: Receipt of major prizes or awards for outstanding achievement in the academic
field.[10]
First, USCIS determines if the beneficiary was the recipient of prizes or awards. The description of
this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus must be on the beneficiary's receipt of
the major prizes or awards, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the prizes or awards.
Second, USCIS determines whether the prizes or awards received are major ones and are for
outstanding achievement in the academic field.
Examples of qualifying rewards may include, but are not limited to:
Awards from well-known national institutions or well-known professional associations;
Certain doctoral dissertation awards; and
Certain awards recognizing presentations at nationally or internationally recognized
conferences.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1171/2618