deficiency . The of ficer should also request local counsel assess the applicant’ s actions and intentions
and assist in determining the appropriate next steps on a per case basis.  
If USCIS already denied or revoked the benefit request for other reasons, or determined that the
requestor abandoned the benefit request, the existence of a declined or returned payment does not
affect that decision. USCIS pursues collection of all payment deficiencies, regardless of the outcome
of adjudication.
C. Date of Receipt
USCIS considers a benefit request “received” on the date it is physically or electronically received.
This date is also known as the submission or filing date,[29] and is listed on the receipt notice, or the
date stamp (where applicable), issued by USCIS. Requestors may only obtain a date of receipt or
filing date if their submission is accepted at the proper location, as designated on the USCIS All Forms
webpage. USCIS does not assign a date of receipt or filing date to benefit requests that are rejected.
[30]
The date of receipt may impact eligibility for immigration benefits. For example, USCIS uses the date
of receipt to determine whether an appeal, Application for Temporary Protected Status ( Form I-821 ), or
Petition for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ) should be rejected for failure to timely file or because
an annual numerical limit has been reached.
The date of receipt may also be significant for purposes of seeking lawful permanent residence; the
filing date is referred to as the priority date for an approved immigrant visa petition in certain
preference categories.[31] For approved petitions in preference categories that are not current, the
priority date dictates how soon the beneficiary may file for permanent residence. Similarly , the filing
date establishes the statutory period for various benefits, including naturalization.
D. Filing Periods Ending on W eekends or Federal Holidays
Benefit requestors must file a benefit request within the period for filing, if applicable, as prescribed by
statute, regulation, and form instructions. This includes filing with USCIS before a certain time period
ends or event occurs, such as before a period of lawful status ends or an individual reaches a certain
age. For example, petitioners for special immigrant juvenile classification must file a Petition for
Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) before their 21st birthday .[32] As another
example, principal refugees and asylees seeking to request follow-to-join immigration benefits for
qualifying family members must file a Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ) for each member
within 2 years of the refugee’ s admission to the United States as a refugee or the asylee’ s grant of
asylum.[33]
USCIS does not accept paper-based applications or petitions on Saturdays, Sundays, or federal
holidays.[34] Therefore, when the last day of the filing period for a paper benefit request falls on a8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 247/2618