permanent labor certification applications under supervised recruitment or reduction in recruitment
rules.
The DOL  PERM final rule, published on December 27, 2004 and ef fective on March 28, 2005,
amended the procedures for obtaining permanent labor certification.[4] DOL  approves and issues
permanent labor certification applications only after the petitioner has complied with DOL  advertising
and recruiting requirements and has established that there are no able, qualified, and available U.S.
workers for the position and has rejected any U.S. job applicants for valid job-related reasons.
Permanent Labor Certifications filed with DOL  on or after March 28, 2005[5]
The Application for Permanent Employment Certification ( ETA Form 9089 (PDF) ) replaced the
Application for Alien Employment Certification (ET A Form 750) in most cases, ef fective March 28,
2005.[6] ETA Form 9089 details the specifics of the job of fer and the beneficiary that were contained in
the ET A Form 750 Part A and Part B. The ET A Form 9089 can be filed electronically or by mail.[7]
For the application to be valid, the petitioner , the beneficiary , and the form preparer (if any) must sign
the ET A Form 9089. It must also contain the DOL  certification stamp and bear the DOL  certifying
officer’s signature and the certification date.
An approved permanent labor certification is not evidence that DOL  has certified that the beneficiary
named on the permanent labor certification qualifies for the position. Only USCIS has the authority to
determine qualifications for nonimmigrant and immigrant classifications.[8] An approved permanent
labor certification means that the petitioner made a good faith ef fort to test the labor market and
demonstrated to DOL  that there were no qualified, able, and available U.S. workers for the position.
USCIS determines whether the beneficiary met the minimum education, training, and experience
requirements of the permanent labor certification at the time the petitioner filed the application for
permanent labor certification with DOL. An immigrant petition for a preference classification is not
approvable if the beneficiary was not fully qualified for the classification by the filing date of the
permanent labor certification (the petition’ s priority date).[9]
B. Validity of Approved Permanent Labor Certifications
1. Validity Period
The validity period for individual permanent labor certifications approved on or after July 16, 2007, is
180 days.[10] Petitioners have 180 calendar days after the date of the approval of the permanent labor
certification application by DOL  within which to submit the permanent labor certification in support of a
petition with USCIS.[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1116/2618