To establish a prima facie case, the self-petitioner must submit a completed Petition for Amerasian,
Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) and evidence to support each of the eligibility
requirements for the self-petition.[4] The self-petitioner must merely address each of the eligibility
requirements but need not prove eligibility in order to establish a prima facie case.[5]
If USCIS determines that a self-petitioner has demonstrated prima facie eligibility , USCIS issues a
Notice of Prima Facie Case (NPFC) to the self-petitioner .[6] The decision to issue an NPFC rests
solely with USCIS.[7]
If USCIS determines that the self-petitioner did not establish a prima facie case upon initial review ,
officers may , in their discretion, issue a Request For Evidence (RFE) seeking additional evidence. If
additional evidence is submitted and the self-petitioner establishes a prima facie case upon second
review , USCIS issues an NPFC.
Regardless of whether a self-petitioner establishes a prima facie case and receives an NPFC or not,
USCIS may discover additional deficiencies while adjudicating the self-petition. For such cases,
USCIS may issue an RFE and will consider RFE responses solely to adjudicate the self-petition.[8]
Note that the NPFC does not confer immigration status or a benefit, and a self-petitioner may not
apply solely for an NPFC. USCIS’  decision to issue or not issue an NPFC is not a consideration in the
adjudication of the underlying self-petition, and a prima facie determination, whether favorable or
adverse, is not a final adjudication of the self-petition.
A favorable NPFC does not mean the self-petitioner has established eligibility for the underlying self-
petition, and additional evidence may be required to establish such eligibility after a favorable NPFC
has been issued.[9]
2. Validity Period and Renewals
Self-petitioners may use the NPFC as evidence to establish their eligibility for certain public benefits
and are eligible to renew their NPFC, as needed, until USCIS completes adjudication of the self-
petition.[10] NPFCs are initially valid for 1 year . If USCIS has not made a decision on the self-petition
by the time the NPFC expires, USCIS automatically sends a renewed NPFC within 60 days of the
expiration date.
The NPFC is renewed for 180 days and continues to be renewed for 180-day periods until USCIS
adjudicates the self-petition. If the Form I-360 is denied, USCIS does not re-issue or extend the NPFC.
Filing an appeal of Form I-360 does not extend the validity of an existing NPFC.
B. Review of Evidence
1. Standard of Proof8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 806/2618