During W orld W ar II, a person was captured by Germans while serving in the Russian Army and
forced to serve as an armed guard at a Nazi concentration camp. The person later applies for a visa
and is questioned about his present and past memberships and af filiations, including any military
service. The person discloses that he had served in the Russian army but does not mention his time
as a guard at the concentration camp. When pressed for more on his military service, the person
continues to present only information on service in the Russian army . 
Since the person provided an unreasonably narrow response to a general question, it is likely that the
person was fully aware that his time at the concentration camp was pertinent to the response and
information sought by the of ficer. When the person provided only a partial response, he concealed
information knowingly , intentionally , and deliberately . The person’ s conscious concealment of facts,
therefore, constitutes willful misrepresentation.[25]
3. Refusal to Respond to Questions
An alien’ s refusal to answer a question does not necessarily mean that he or she willfully made a false
representation. However , refusal to answer a question during an admissibility determination could
result in the of ficer finding that the applicant failed to establish admissibility .[26]
4. Misrepresentation Made by a Person’ s Agent
If the false representation is made by an applicant’ s attorney or agent, the applicant will
be held responsible if it is established that the applicant was aware of the action taken by the
representative in furtherance of his or her application. This includes oral misrepresentations made at
the border by someone assisting an alien to enter illegally . Furthermore, a person
cannot deny responsibility for any misrepresentation made on the advice of another unless it is
established that the person lacked the capacity to exercise judgment.[27]
5. Misrepresentations by Minors (Under 18) or those who are Mentally Incompetent
The INA  does not exempt an alien from inadmissibility for fraud or willful
misrepresentation solely based on age or mental incapacity . The BIA  has not yet addressed in any
precedent decision whether a minor is shielded from this inadmissibility on account of being a minor . 
Both fraud and willful misrepresentation must be intentional acts. There may be cases in which the
officer finds that an alien, because of mental incompetence or young age, was incapable of
independently forming an intent to defraud or misrepresent. In these cases, an alien’ s inability to
commit intentional acts precludes a finding of inadmissibility for fraud or willful misrepresentation since
the alien could not have acted “willfully .”
The of ficer should consider all relevant factors when evaluating fraud or willful misrepresentation
including the applicant’ s:  8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2064/2618