3. Reasonable Predictions
An applicant must submit evidence that the regional center's pooled investment will have a
substantive economic impact on the proposed geographic area. The proposal must include
reasonable predictions, supported by economically and statistically valid and transparent forecasting
tools, concerning the amount of investment that will be pooled, the kinds of commercial enterprises
that will receive such investments, details of the jobs that will be created directly or indirectly as a
result of such investments, and other positive economic ef fects such investments will have.[23]
4. Policies and Procedures
An applicant must provide a description of the policies and procedures in place reasonably designed
to monitor new commercial enterprises and any associated job-creating entity to seek to ensure
compliance with applicable federal and state laws as well as the employment-based 5th preference
(EB-5) program.[24] Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a written policy document that
describes the policies and procedures in place reasonably designed to:
Monitor new commercial enterprises and any associated job-creating entity to seek to ensure
compliance with all applicable federal and state laws; and
Ensure EB-5 program compliance.
Applicable federal and state laws that entities must comply with include:
Applicable laws, regulations, and Executive Orders of the United States, including immigration
laws, criminal laws, and securities laws; and
All securities laws of each state in which securities of ferings will be conducted, investment
advice will be rendered, or the of ferors or of ferees reside.[25]
C. Adjudication
1. Approval
If the applicant properly filed the application and the applicant has met the required eligibility
standards, the of ficer approves the application. The approval notice provides information about the
responsibilities and obligations of the designated regional center . The approval notice also lists the
evidence to submit in support of regional center-associated individual EB-5 petitions, as well as details
on the reporting, oversight and other compliance requirements for regional centers.
2. Denial
If the applicant has not established eligibility for the benefit sought, the of ficer denies the application.
The of ficer should write the denial in clear and comprehensive language and cover all grounds for
denial.[26] In the denial, the of ficer should refer to the controlling statute or regulations and to any8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1288/2618