Part L  - Refugee Adjustment
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
USCIS seeks to:
Resolve the refugee’ s status after admission by ultimately determining whether the refugee is
admissible to the United States as an immigrant; and
Provide qualified refugees a pathway to permanent residence as persons of special
humanitarian concern to the United States.
B. Background
Before the Refugee Act of 1980, refugee admission policy was reactive and piecemeal as it grew in
response to humanitarian crises and ethnic conflicts. The result was an assortment of laws and
regulations that classified persons as refugees, conditional entrants, parolees, pre-parolees,
escapees, evacuees, or asylum grantees. In many cases, the long-term resolution of
these classifications was unclear . The Refugee Act of 1980 addressed these issues by providing a
systematic procedure for the admission and permanent resettlement of refugees of special
humanitarian concern to the United States.
Prior to the passage of the Refugee Act, a refugee in the United States had to wait two years to apply
for adjustment of status. The refugee also had to show that he or she had fled (or stayed away from)
any communist-dominated country or country within the Middle East and was unwilling or unable to
return due to fear of persecution. 
Although the refugee was not required to show that he or she continued to meet the definition of a
refugee, he or she adjusted status under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA),
meaning that all of the inadmissibility grounds and bars to adjustment applied. The Refugee Act
established, among other things, a uniform basis for permanent resettlement by amending
the INA  with the creation of section 209. 
Refugees are now required to apply to adjust status one year after being admitted as a refugee in
order for USCIS to determine their admissibility to the United States as an immigrant.[1] Recognizing
the unique and tenuous position of this population, Congress determined that certain grounds of
inadmissibility would not apply at time of adjustment, while allowing for the possible waiver of other
grounds. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1787/2618