Other states may recognize a common law marriage contracted in another state even if the
recognizing state does not accept common law marriage as a means for its own residents to contract
marriage.
USCIS recognizes common law marriages for purposes of naturalization if the marriage was valid and
recognized by the state in which the marriage was established.[16] This applies even if the
naturalization application is filed in a jurisdiction that does not recognize or has never recognized the
principle of common law marriage.
The of ficer should review the laws of the relevant jurisdiction on common law marriages to determine
whether the applicant and spouse should be considered to be married for purposes of naturalization
and when the marriage commenced.
C. U.S. Citizenship from T ime of Filing until Oath
In order to take advantage of the special naturalization provisions for spouses of U.S. citizens, the
applicant’ s spouse must be and remain a U.S. citizen from the time of filing until the time the applicant
takes the Oath of Allegiance. An applicant is ineligible for naturalization under these provisions if his or
her spouse is not a U.S. citizen or loses U.S. citizenship status by denaturalization or expatriation prior
to the applicant taking the Oath of Allegiance.[17]
D. Marital Union and Living in Marital Union
1. Married and Living in Marital Union
In general, all naturalization applicants filing on the basis of marriage to a U.S. citizen must continue to
be the spouse of a U.S. citizen from the time of filing the naturalization application until the applicant
takes the Oath of Allegiance. In addition, some spousal naturalization provisions require that the
applicant “live in marital union” with his or her citizen spouse for at least 3 years immediately
preceding the date of filing the naturalization application.[18] USCIS considers an applicant to “live in
marital union” with his or her citizen spouse if the applicant and the citizen actually reside together .
An applicant does not meet the married and “living in marital union” requirements if:
The applicant is not residing with his or her U.S. citizen spouse at the time of filing or during the
time in which the applicant is required to be living in marital union with the U.S. citizen spouse; or
The marital relationship is terminated at any time prior to taking the Oath of Allegiance.
If the applicant ceases to reside with his or her U.S. citizen spouse between the time of filing and the
time at which the applicant takes the Oath of Allegiance, the of ficer should consider whether the
applicant met the living in marital union requirement at the time of filing.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2435/2618