Date Event
January 1, 2009 An alien is admitted to the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant.
June 30, 2009The B-2 nonimmigrant’ s authorized stay expires, as indicated on the
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94). 
August 5, 2009The B-2 nonimmigrant untimely files a EOS application. The B-2
nonimmigrant explains that he was unable to file his extension request
timely , because he was hospitalized with a debilitating medical condition
when his B-2 status expired. He also provides corroborating evidence
from the attending medical staf f at the hospital.
September 1, 2009 USCIS excuses the untimely filing and approves the EOS application.
In this scenario, USCIS considers the applicant to have continuously maintained lawful status for
purposes of adjusting status. In contrast, if USCIS denied the EOS application, the applicant would
have fallen out of valid status as of June 30 and would be barred from adjusting status, unless an
exemption applies.
F. Temporary Protected Status and Maintenance of Status – INA  245(c)(2)
For purposes of adjustment of status, an applicant in temporary protected status (TPS) is in and
maintaining a lawful immigration status as a nonimmigrant during the period TPS is authorized.[41] In
addition, if an applicant was eligible to apply for TPS but was prevented by regulation from filing a late
application for TPS registration, the applicant is considered as maintaining a lawful nonimmigrant
status until the TPS benefit is granted.[42]
Unless the applicant is otherwise exempt, the granting of TPS does not excuse or cure any other
lapses or violations of lawful immigration status or forgive any unauthorized employment. 
G. Properly Filed Adjustment Application – INA  245(c)(2) and INA  245(c)(8)
For purposes of the bars to adjustment, a nonimmigrant only needs to maintain his or her
nonimmigrant status until the time he or she properly files an adjustment application with
USCIS so long as the nonimmigrant does not engage in any unauthorized employment after filing the
adjustment application.[43] An applicant does not violate the terms of his or her nonimmigrant status
merely by filing an application to adjust status as long as the application was properly filed when the
applicant was in lawful nonimmigrant status.[44]
H. National Security Entry Exit Registration System and V iolation of V isa – INA
245(c)(8)8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1573/2618