[^ 1] For more information, see V olume 8, Admissibility , Part C, Civil Surgeon Designation and
Revocation, Chapter 3, Blanket Civil Surgeon Designation, Section A, Blanket Designation of State
and Local Health Departments [ 8 USCIS-PM C.3(A) ].
Chapter 5 - Adjudication Procedures
A. Record of Proceedings Review and Underlying Basis
The of ficer should place all documents in the A-file according to the established record of proceedings
order , including the filing of any documents the alien submitted in response to a Request for Evidence
(RFE).
When the of ficer reviews the application for adjustment of status of a refugee, the of ficer should also
review the refugee travel packet to verify the alien's identity , refugee status and admission, completion
of the overseas medical exam and to ensure consistency with the adjustment application. There are
several forms that may be found in the A-file that may be of particular importance:
Registration for Classification as Refugee (Form I-590)
This form documents the alien's identity , marital status, number of children, military service,
organizational memberships and any violations of law . A photo of the alien should be attached to the
upper left hand corner . In addition, the Port of Admission Block at the bottom of the second page
should be stamped. This indicates the alien's particular port of entry and date of admission.
Sworn Statement of Refugee Applying for Admission into the United States (G-646)
This form documents the alien's testimony regarding possible persecutory acts and the inadmissibility
provisions that pertain to refugees.
Refugee Assessment
This document, completed by a USCIS of ficer, contains the testimony given by the principal refugee to
establish his or her claim for refugee status during an interview with a USCIS of ficer and includes the
officer’s legal analysis including an assessment of the alien's eligibility under the refugee definition,
admissibility , and credibility .
Case History/Persecution Story
This document details the key material aspects of the principal refugee’ s life from birth up to the time
of refugee processing. It is completed by Resettlement Support Center (RSC) staf f under cooperative
agreement with the U.S. Department of State (DOS).
Family Tree8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1803/2618