until the identity of the inquirer has been confirmed and it has been determined the inquirer is not a
third party to whom information may not be released.
USCIS employees must adhere to these same TPS confidentiality provisions regarding the disclosure
of information to third parties, even if the information is contained in a TPS-related form such as:
Form I-765 , which every TPS applicant must file;
A TPS-related waiver requested on Application for W aiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility ( Form I-
601); or
A TPS-related Form I-131 .
With respect to confidentiality , USCIS employees must treat these records as they do other TPS
supporting documentation in the TPS application package.
USCIS employees may respond to general questions about the TPS program.[45] However , for all
case-specific questions relating to Form I-821 applications, USCIS employees must first confirm the
identity of the person and his or her eligibility to receive such information.
Offices must not take or respond to inquiries about the status of a TPS application made by telephone,
fax, or email because it is not possible to suf ficiently verify the identity of the inquirer . Offices may
accept written status requests signed by the applicant (or the applicant’ s attorney or representative
with a properly completed Form G-28  on file).
3. Exceptions for Disclosure
Information about TPS applications and information contained in supporting documentation can be
disclosed to third parties in two instances:
When it is mandated by a court order; or
With the written consent of the applicant.
Information about TPS cases can be disclosed to of ficers of DOJ, DHS, or any federal or state law
enforcement agency since they are not considered third parties.[46] Information disclosed under the
requirements of the TPS confidentiality regulation may be used for immigration enforcement or in any
criminal proceeding.
H. Legalization
1. Confidentiality Provisions
Statutory and regulatory provisions require confidentiality in legalization cases and Legal Immigration
Family Equity (LIFE) Act legalization cases, prohibiting the publishing of any information that may be
identified with a legalization applicant.[47] The laws also do not permit anyone other than sworn
officers and employees of DHS and DOJ to examine individual applications.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 190/2618