after the expiration of the status.[10] When filing a Form I-539 untimely , the applicant should explain
the reason(s) for the late filing.[11]
USCIS exercises its discretion to grant or deny an untimely filed extension request based upon the
justification for the untimely filing in the specific circumstances of the case. If USCIS grants an
extension of T nonimmigrant status, USCIS issues a new Form I-797 extension notice valid from the
date that the previous status expired and ending 1 year after the approval of the application to extend
status. Once an applicant receives this new Form I-797, the applicant may then file an application to
adjust status before the expiration of the extension.
There is no appeal of a denial of a Form I-539. However , an applicant may file a motion to reopen or
reconsider within 30 days of the denial.[12]
D. Evidence
1. Law Enforcement Need
In cases in which the T nonimmigrant is filing for an extension of status based on law enforcement
need, supporting evidence may include:
A newly executed Declaration for Trafficking V ictim ( Form I-914, Supplement B ); or
Other evidence from a law enforcement of ficial, prosecutor , judge, or other authority who can
detect, investigate, or prosecute human traf ficking activity and was involved in the applicable
case. The applicant must include evidence that comes directly from an LEA.
USCIS does not require Form I-914, Supplement B to demonstrate law enforcement need, although it
is helpful. The applicant may submit a letter on the agency’ s letterhead, emails, or faxes from an LEA
or any other credible evidence.
2. Exceptional Circumstances
Where T nonimmigrants are filing for an extension of status based on exceptional circumstances,
applicants may submit their own statement and any other credible evidence to establish exceptional
circumstances. Such evidence could include, but is not limited to:
Medical records;
Police or court records;
News articles;
Correspondence with a U.S. embassy or consulate;
Evidence of consular processing backlogs or other delays; and
Affidavits from persons with direct knowledge or familiarity with the applicant’ s circumstances.[13]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 712/2618