Secure Identity Document How to Request Replacement or Renewal
Documents, and Arrival/Departure Records ( Form I-131 ) with
USCIS, with appropriate fees.
Certificate of Citizenship or
Certificate of Naturalization Whether inside or outside the United States, complete and
properly file an Application for Replacement
Naturalization/Citizenship Document ( Form N-565 ).[9]
B. Reissuing Non-Deliverable Secure Identity Documents
USCIS receives a number of secure identity documents returned by the U.S. Postal
Service  (USPS) after attempting delivery . Reasons for return range from USPS error (such as
misdirected mail or correct address not recognized) to requestor error (such as an untimely address
change). Benefit requestors who believe their secure identity documents have been returned to
USCIS as non-deliverable may contact the USCIS Contact Center . In some instances, USCIS may be
able to attempt a second delivery to the original address. 
1. Background
Historically , the management of secure identity documents, including storage, remailing,
and destruction, occurred at multiple sites across USCIS with each location having a separate staf f
performing Post Of fice Non-Deliverables (PONDS) functions in accordance with local policies. In
2016, USCIS undertook an initiative to reduce the handling of secure identity documents, more clearly
define the scope of PONDS duties, and create a more consistent and manageable process. The
Office of Intake and Document Production (OIDP) established a centralized PONDS Unit at the Lee’ s
Summit Production Facility in June 2017, which now oversees all PONDS operations.
Between June 2017 and October 2017, PONDS data showed 95 percent of secure identity documents
were successfully re-mailed to requestors within 60 business days of being returned to USCIS. For
documents that were unsuccessfully re-mailed, USCIS had previously kept documents for 365
calendar days. In 2018, USCIS began retaining non-deliverable secure identity documents returned to
USCIS for 60 business days, or 12 weeks, before destroying them.[10]
Before secure identity documents are destroyed, PONDS Unit staf f must search all relevant data
systems to see if a new address exists. If a new address exists, USCIS re-mails the card to the new
address. If no new address exists, USCIS destroys the card and updates its status in applicable
systems as destroyed, in accordance with PONDS procedures.
2. Reissuing Secure Identity Documents8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2234/2618