Group II – immigrants of exceptional ability in the sciences or arts, including college and
university teachers, and immigrants of exceptional ability in the performing arts.
Because of the occupational shortage of these U.S. workers, DOL  has “pre-certified” Schedule A
occupations. This means that an employer who wishes to hire a person for a Schedule A occupation is
not required to conduct a test of the labor market and apply for a permanent labor certification with
DOL. Rather , this employer must apply for Schedule A designation by submitting an application for
permanent labor certification to USCIS in conjunction with the petition.
D. Prevailing W age Determinations and Notices of Filing
1. Prevailing W age Determination
An employer must obtain a valid prevailing wage determination from DOL ’s National Prevailing W age
Center (NPWC) before it can file the petition with USCIS.[7] The prevailing wage determination
ensures that the wages of fered to the beneficiary are reflective of the wages of fered for comparable
positions at the location where the job of fer exists before the petitioner files the petition. In situations
where there are multiple worksites (for example, the employer is a staf fing agency), if the employer
knows where they will place the beneficiary , the prevailing wage is the wage applicable to the area of
intended employment where the worksite is located. If an employer with multiple clients does not know
where they will place the beneficiary among its multiple clients, the prevailing wage is derived from the
area of its headquarters.[8] The wage of fered to the beneficiary must be no less than 100 percent of
the prevailing wage.
To obtain a prevailing wage determination, the employer must file an Application for Prevailing W age
Determination ( Form ET A-9141 (PDF) ) with the NPWC. The NPWC processes prevailing wage
determination requests under DOL  regulations and guidance and provides the employer with an
appropriate prevailing wage rate on Form ET A-9141.
Form ET A-9141 must contain the NPWC’ s determination date, as well as the validity period of the
prevailing wage determination. The validity period may not be less than 90 days or more than 1 year
from the determination date. An employer must file a petition within the validity period in order to use
the prevailing wage rate provided by the NPWC.[9]
2. Notice of Filing[10]
Notice to Employees
Before an employer can file a petition, it must have also provided a notice of the position(s) it is
seeking to fill under Schedule A, Group I or II, to the employer ’s bargaining representative.[11]
Alternatively , if there is no such representative, then the employer must provide notice to its8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1123/2618