On occasion, of ficers may require evidence from an expert to assist in completing an adjudication. For
example, in cases involving handwritten, counterfeit, or altered documents, U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE)’ s Homeland Security Investigations Forensic Laboratory  may serve as
experts.[30] A requestor may also submit evidence from a non-DHS expert.
An expert is permitted to give an opinion on a particular set of facts or circumstances involving
scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge. Knowledge, skill, experience, training, or
education must qualify the expert. Of ficers may reject or af ford lesser evidentiary weight to expert
opinions that conflict with the evidence of record or are questionable.[31]
E. Translations
1. Document T ranslations
Any document containing a foreign language submitted in support of a benefit request must be
accompanied by a full English language translation.[32] The translator must certify that the translation
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language
into English.[33] Sometimes the keeper of a record issues an “extract” version of a document. Such
official extracts are acceptable, but only if they contain all the information necessary to make a
decision on a case. Only extracts prepared by an authorized of ficial (the “keeper of record”) are
acceptable. A summary of a document prepared by a translator is unacceptable.
2. Document T ranslators
If an of ficer takes a written statement in a foreign language and a translator translates it into English, it
may be necessary to produce the translator at a subsequent interview or hearing. When there is
evidence that a written statement might not be accurately translated, the translator may be called upon
to testify not only as to knowledge of the English and the foreign language, but also to confirm the
accuracy of the translation.[34]
F. Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny
Under the regulations, USCIS has the discretion to issue Requests for Evidence (RFEs) and Notices
of Intent to Deny (NOIDs) for immigration benefit requests in appropriate circumstances.[35] USCIS
also has the discretion in some instances to issue a denial without first issuing an RFE or a NOID.
An of ficer should issue an RFE or NOID when the facts and the law warrant; an of ficer should not
avoid issuing an RFE or NOID when one is needed. However , an of ficer should not issue an RFE or
NOID if the of ficer determines the evidence already submitted establishes eligibility or ineligibility for
the request. An unnecessary RFE or NOID can delay case completion and result in additional
unnecessary costs to both the government and the benefit requestor .[36]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 276/2618