The prof fered wage for each beneficiary; 
The priority date of each petition;
The status of each petition and the date of any status change (that is, pending, approved,
denied, withdrawn, revoked, on appeal or motion, beneficiary obtained lawful permanent
residence); and
Documentary evidence of any wages paid to each beneficiary for each year starting from the
priority date of the current Form I-140 petition or the priority date of the Form I-140 petition filed
on behalf the other beneficiary , whichever is later . Such evidence may include:
Wage and Tax Statement (IRS Form W -2);
Miscellaneous Income (IRS Form 1099-MISC);
State wage and withholding reports; and
Pay vouchers or payroll records that specify the length of the pay periods and show gross
or net pay , year-to-date income, income tax deductions, and tax withheld.
Officers should also conduct a totality of the circumstances analysis in each case where ability to pay
involves multiple beneficiaries.[27]
3. Successors-in-Interest
A petition filed by a successor-in-interest must establish, among other things, that the predecessor
entity possessed the ability to pay the prof fered wage from the priority date until the transfer of
ownership to the successor , and the successor has possessed the ability to pay the prof fered wage
from the date of the transfer of ownership onwards.[28]
4. Nonprofit Organizations
Certain nonprofit organizations are exempt from income taxation under the Internal Revenue Code.
Nonetheless, tax-exempt nonprofit organizations are generally required to file annual returns of their
income and expenses on a Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax (IRS Form 990 or IRS
Form 990EZ). Churches and certain church-related organizations may be exempt from filing IRS Form
990. If a nonprofit organization does not have tax returns, it must still provide annual reports, audited
financial statements, or , for organizations with 100 or more employees, a financial of ficer statement, to
establish its ability to pay the prof fered wage.
The Business Structures  overview provides more information on nonprofit organizations.
5. Establishing Ability to Pay When the Beneficiary Ports to a New Job Under AC21
The American Competitiveness in the Twenty-First Century Act of 2000 (AC21)[29] allows certain
employment-based adjustment of status applicants to change jobs or employers without the filing of a
new Form I-140  petition. Specifically , if an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust
Status ( Form I-485 ) is based on a Form I-140 petition, and the application has been pending for 1808/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1111/2618