An of ficer should also never issue an RFE for additional vaccines if the applicant is no longer pregnant
at the time of the adjudication of the adjustment of status. As long as the vaccination assessment was
properly completed by the civil surgeon at the time of the examination, the vaccination assessment
can be accepted. In other words, if a woman did not receive certain required vaccines because
she was pregnant at the time of the medical examination, and the contraindication box is marked by
the civil surgeon, the applicant is not required to get those vaccines later at the time of the
adjudication.
Likewise, some vaccines are not medically appropriate for applicants who have an immuno-
compromised condition (such as HIV/AIDS or a weakened immune system because of taking certain
medications) and may be marked by the civil surgeon as contraindicated.[10]
In the case of an immuno-compromised person, the of ficer should never issue an RFE for additional
vaccines even if, at the time of the adjudication of adjustment of status, the applicant is no longer
immuno-compromised. As long as the vaccination assessment was properly completed at the time of
the examination by the civil surgeon, the vaccination assessment can be accepted. The applicant
should not be required to get the missing vaccines later at the time of the adjudication.
3. Blanket W aiver due to Nationwide V accination Shortage
USCIS will grant a blanket waiver only in the case of a vaccination shortage if CDC recommends that
USCIS should do so based on CDC’ s assessment that there is a nationwide shortage.
An of ficer may only grant a blanket waiver for a vaccine based on a vaccination shortage if the
following circumstances are met:
CDC declares that there is a nationwide vaccination shortage, and issues the appropriate
statement on its website for civil surgeons;
USCIS issues the appropriate statement on uscis.gov; and
The civil surgeon annotates the medical examination form in compliance with any additional
requirements specified by CDC or USCIS.
The grant of this blanket waiver does not dif fer from the grant of other blanket waivers.
4. Vaccines Not Routinely Available Abroad
Generally , “national vaccination shortage” principles do not apply abroad. In the context of
vaccinations administered outside of the United States, the term panel physicians use to indicate the
unavailability of a vaccine is “not routinely available.” Therefore, if the adjustment applicant is
permitted to use the vaccination assessment completed abroad,[11] then of ficers should not find the
applicant inadmissible solely based on the panel physician indicating a vaccine is “not routinely
available.” Of ficers should also not issue an RFE for corrective action. USCIS may grant a blanket
waiver in these cases.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1921/2618