Comparable to the limit on a credit card, a line of credit that has not been drawn upon cannot be
treated as cash or as a cash asset and would not be added to the petitioner ’s net income or net
current asset calculations. Any cash drawn upon from a line of credit or any other credit used should
be reflected in the balance sheet provided in the tax return or audited financial statement (if available)
and would be fully considered in the evaluation of the petitioner ’s net current assets. If the petitioner
wishes to rely on a line of credit as evidence of ability to pay , the petitioner should submit evidence
that demonstrates the amount of the line of credit available and that the line of credit augments rather
than weakens its overall financial position. Relevant evidence could include monthly statements.
C. Analysis
USCIS considers all evidence relevant to the petitioner ’s financial strength and the significance of its
business activities, whether listed in the regulation or related to other metrics.[17]
1. Employment of the Beneficiary
If the petitioner establishes by documentary evidence that it has paid the beneficiary a salary equal to
or greater than the prof fered wage for each year from the priority date, the evidence may establish the
petitioner ’s ability to pay .
The wage paid to the beneficiary is generally established with:
Wage and Tax Statement (IRS Forms W -2);
Miscellaneous Income (IRS Forms 1099-MISC); or
State wage and withholding reports that list the individual employee.
Even if the petitioner establishes that it has paid the beneficiary a salary that meets or exceeds the
proffered wage, the petition must still contain an annual report, federal tax return, or audited financial
statements for each year from the priority date or , for petitioners who employ 100 or more workers, a
financial of ficer statement.[18] Payments that do not compensate the beneficiary through wages, such
as those made to health insurers for benefits or housing allowances (unless on the labor certification
and advertised), are not part of the wages paid to the beneficiary .
2. Net Income and Net Current Assets
Net income (also called net profit or ordinary income, depending on the corporate structure) consists
of revenues less all expenses[19] over a period of time. Where the petitioner ’s net income over the
relevant period is equal to or exceeds the prof fered wage, the petitioner generally demonstrates its
ability to pay that wage. USCIS does not add back depreciation.[20]
As a separate consideration, net current assets are the dif ference between the petitioner ’s current
assets and current liabilities. Current assets consist of items having (in most cases) a life of 1 year or
less, such as cash, marketable securities, inventory and prepaid expenses.[21] Current liabilities are8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1107/2618