USCIS considers the following adverse factors in determining if the adoptee beneficiary entered the
United States for the purpose of adoption:
A prior adoption of the adoptee beneficiary in the country of origin by the adoptive parent(s) in
the United States. (This is a significant adverse factor .)
Prior contact between the adoptive parent(s) and the adoptee beneficiary . (This could be an
adverse factor if the contact was related to the adoption.) USCIS considers present and prior
family relationships when reviewing the intent criteria. Prior contact between the adoptive
parent(s) and the adoptee beneficiary may not be an adverse factor if the adoptee beneficiary is
a relative, but USCIS reviews the case based on the totality of the evidence.
Any evidence that suggests that the entry was for the purpose of adoption.
2. Actual Residence Criteria
If the adoptee beneficiary was physically present in the United States for 2 years or more before the
adoption, USCIS presumes that the adoptee beneficiary has actually and physically resided in the
United States for a substantial period of time, establishing compelling ties in the United States prior to
the U.S. domestic adoption (and that the adoptee beneficiary meets actual residence
criteria). However , if the adoptee beneficiary has been present in the United States for less than 2
years, the of ficer considers the length of time that the adoptee beneficiary has spent in the United
States before the adoption and supporting evidence establishing the adoptee beneficiary’ s actual
residence and compelling ties in the United States before the adoption.
Evidence
Documentation from the time period before the adoption may include, but is not limited to, the
following:
Evidence of ongoing medical care in the United States;
Statement from the petitioners explaining the adoptee beneficiary’ s social interactions, including
family and peer relationships;
School records;
Registration for extra-curricular activities;
Affidavits from knowledgeable people (such as the adoptee beneficiary’ s doctor or teacher , day
care provider , landlord, or neighbors) attesting to the adoptee beneficiary’ s actual residence in
the United States;
Evidence that the adoptee beneficiary’ s birth parent(s), guardian, or caretaker resided in the
United States;
An order from a court with jurisdiction over the adoptee beneficiary if that order includes express
findings that the adoptee beneficiary actually resided in the United States for a substantial period
of time or had compelling ties in the United States before the adoption (The information in a8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1026/2618