An immigrant visa application retained by the American Consulate for inclusion in the immigrant
visa package; or
An immigrant petition or application included in a USCIS administrative file.
If necessary , an of ficer may request additional documentation to make a decision on the application.
F. Citizenship Interview and W aiver
In general, an applicant must appear in person for an interview before a USCIS of ficer after filing an
Application for Certificate of Citizenship. This includes the U.S. citizen parent or parents if the
application is filed on behalf of a child under 18 years of age.[76] USCIS, however , may waive the
interview requirement if all the required documentation necessary to establish the applicant's eligibility
is already included in USCIS administrative records or if the required documentation is submitted
along with the application.[77]
G. Decision and Oath of Allegiance
1. Approval of Application, Oath of Allegiance, and W aiver for Children under 14 Years of Age
If the applicant meets all the requirements for citizenship, USCIS approves the Form N-600 . USCIS
determines the date of citizenship based on when the applicant met the last requirement.
If an of ficer approves the Form N-600 , USCIS administers the Oath of Allegiance before issuing a
Certificate of Citizenship.[78]
However , the INA  permits USCIS to waive the taking of the Oath of Allegiance if USCIS determines
the person is unable to understand its meaning.[79] USCIS has determined that children under the age
of 14 are generally unable to understand the meaning of the oath.
Accordingly , USCIS waives the oath requirement for a child younger than 14 years of age. If USCIS
waives the oath requirement, USCIS issues a Certificate of Citizenship after the of ficer approves the
application.
If an applicant does not take the Oath of Allegiance and is not eligible for a waiver , USCIS cannot
issue a Certificate of Citizenship.[80]
2. Denial of Application
If an of ficer denies the Certificate of Citizenship application, the of ficer must notify the applicant in
writing of the reasons for denial and include information on the right to appeal in the notice.[81] An
applicant may file an appeal within 30 calendar days after service of the decision (33 days if the
decision was mailed).
Footnotes 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2496/2618