Additional evidence may be requested at the discretion of the of ficer if needed to determine eligibility .
[8] To provide petitioners an opportunity to address concerns before issuing a denial, of ficers generally
issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) or a Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID), where the evidence is
insuf ficient to adjudicate the petition.[9] The of ficer may request additional evidence for reasons such
as, but not limited to:
The record lacks the required dependency or custody , parental reunification, or best interest
determinations;
It is unclear if the order was made by a juvenile court or in accordance with state law;
The evidence provided does not establish a reasonable factual basis for the determinations or
indicate what protective relief was granted by the court;
The record contains evidence or information that materially conflicts with the evidence or
information that was the basis for the court order; or
Additional evidence is needed to determine eligibility .
E. Fraud
There may be cases where the of ficer suspects or determines that a petitioner has committed fraud in
attempting to establish eligibility for SIJ classification. In these cases, of ficers follow current
procedures when referring a case to Fraud Detection and National Security (FDNS).[10]
F. Decision
1. Approval
SIJ classification may not be granted absent the consent of the Secretary of Homeland Security . DHS
delegates this authority to USCIS. Therefore, USCIS approval of the SIJ petition is evidence of DHS
consent. USCIS notifies petitioners in writing upon approval of the petition.[11]
2. Denial
If the petitioner does not provide necessary evidence or does not meet the eligibility requirements,
USCIS denies the Form I-360  petition. If USCIS denies the SIJ petition, USCIS provides the petitioner
with a written denial notice which includes a detailed basis for the denial.[12] An SIJ petitioner may
appeal an adverse decision or request that USCIS reopen or reconsider a USCIS decision.[13] The
denial notice includes instructions for filing a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ).
3. Revocation
Automatic Revocation
An approved SIJ petition is automatically revoked as of the date of approval if any one of the
circumstances below occurs before USCIS issues a decision on the SIJ’ s application for adjustment of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1425/2618