Eligibility Requirements: Registry 
The applicant is admissible to the United States or eligible for a waiver of inadmissibility or other
form of relief.
The applicant is not deportable under terrorist-related grounds.[13]
The applicant merits the favorable exercise of discretion.
1. Entered the United States prior to January 1, 1972
In general, entry pertains to any type of entry , whether legal or illegal, including entry in any immigrant,
nonimmigrant, or parole classification.
Current Exchange V isitors
Although not listed as a basis for ineligibility for registry , nonimmigrants who entered as an exchange
visitor (J nonimmigrant) subject to the 2-year foreign residency requirement are precluded from
applying for permanent residence unless a waiver is granted.[14] Any applicant subject to the foreign
residency requirement must be eligible for and obtain a waiver of the requirement since compliance
with such requirement would break the continuous residence after entry .
2. Maintained Continuous Residence in the United States Since Entry
An applicant may prove continuous residence[15] in the United States since entry without regard to
numerous brief departures from the United States.[16]
Establishing continuity of residence is normally done through the submission of a number of
documents covering the period of time since the claimed admission date. While there is no fixed
number of documents an applicant must submit to cover the period, it must be enough to satisfy an
officer making the determination. An of ficer should take into account the length of time since the entry ,
the applicant’ s circumstances, and other similar factors when determining how much evidence is
necessary to establish continuous residence.
The burden remains on the applicant to prove eligibility for this benefit.[17] Exact, complete proof of
continuous residence is not required. However , the applicant should submit evidence to show a
pattern of continuous residence in the United States for the time period necessary . The of ficer should
consider the proof of residence submitted in light of any relevant periods of time when large numbers
of aliens were leaving the United States, such as periods of war or economic recessions.[18]
Establishing Entry and Continuous Residence
The applicant may show evidence of entry by submitting at least one document showing presence in
the United States prior to January 1, 1972. An applicant may submit as many documents as8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1845/2618