investment operations in another party country . Self-employment conflicts with the intent of the NAFT A
Implementation Act and its accompanying Statement of Administrative Action (SAA), which states:
“Section D of Annex 1603 does not authorize a professional to establish a business or practice in the
U.S. in which the professional will be self-employed.”[7]
Although the regulations governing the previous United States-Canada Free-T rade Agreement (CFT A)
Implementation Act did not address self-employment, the bar on establishing a business or practice in
which the professional will be self-employed is consistent with the intent of the United States and
Canada in entering into the CFT A. Since entry into NAFT A was not intended to substantively change
the treatment of professionals, this explicit bar only clarifies existing law .[8]
A Canadian or Mexican citizen who is self-employed outside the United States may seek admission to
the United States in accordance with a prearranged agreement with an enterprise owned by another
person or entity located in the United States. A TN applicant may not do so to render prearranged
services for a U.S. corporation or entity for which the alien is the sole or controlling shareholder or
owner or over which he or she holds de facto control.[9]
Relevant factors for determining whether the alien is self-employed include, but are not limited to:
Whether the U.S. enterprise is a separate legal entity from the alien;
Whether the alien has substantial control over the enterprise for which he or she will work in the
United States; and
Whether evidence indicates the U.S. enterprise was established to facilitate the alien’ s self-
employment in the United States.
2. Separate Legal Entity (Substantively Separate)
An alien is ineligible for classification as a TN professional if the enterprise in the United States
offering a contract or employment is a sole proprietorship he or she will operate. Even if the receiving
enterprise is legally distinct from the alien, such as a corporation having a separate legal existence,
entry as a TN professional must be refused if the receiving enterprise is substantially controlled by that
alien.[10]
3. Substantial Control of Enterprise
Whether an alien substantially controls the U.S. enterprise depends on the specific facts of each case.
The relevant factors in determining what constitutes substantial control include, but are not limited to:
Whether the alien has established the receiving enterprise;
Whether the alien has sole or primary control of the U.S. enterprise (regardless of the alien’ s
actual percentage of share ownership);
Whether the alien is the sole or primary owner of the enterprise; and
Whether the alien is the sole or primary recipient of the enterprise’ s income.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 626/2618