Under former INA  321(a)(3), it is not a requirement that children be born in wedlock to derive
citizenship based upon the naturalization of the parent who had legal custody of the child where there
was a legal separation of the parents. Children born out of wedlock could derive citizenship if their
parents later married and then legally separated before the child reached the age of 18.[10] As long as
the child met all requirements before the age of 18 years, legal separation did not need to occur
before the parent’ s naturalization.[11]
2. Legal Custody
Legal custody , which refers to the responsibility for and authority over a child, is determined according
to the relevant jurisdiction’ s law or is determined by a court decree or order . If there was a judicial
determination or judicial or statutory grant of custody , then the parent to whom custody was granted
had legal custody for former INA  321 purposes.[12]
A child of a naturalized U.S. citizen and an alien, whose parents divorced or legally separated, derived
citizenship under former INA  321 on the date the naturalized U.S. citizen parent was awarded custody
of the child, if all other conditions were met.[13]
If the parent naturalized after the date that custody was awarded to the naturalizing parent, the child
would derive citizenship under former INA  321(a) on the date of the naturalization of the custodial
parent, provided that the child was under the age of 18 and all other conditions were met. If the child
resided outside the United States when the U.S. citizen parent was awarded custody and naturalized,
the child would derive citizenship after beginning to reside permanently in the United States while
under the age of 18.[14]
Actual Uncontested Custody
If a child’ s parents divorced or legally separated, but the decree of divorce or legal separation order
was silent on the custody determination and the relevant jurisdiction’ s law did not determine which
parent had custody of the children, then USCIS considers the U.S. citizen parent who had actual
uncontested (physical) custody of the child to have had legal custody of the child.[15] Evidence
showing the child was living with the U.S. citizen parent establishes “actual, uncontested custody .”[16]
Joint Custody
For purposes of former INA  321, unlike current INA  320, some courts have held that “legal custody”
does not include joint custody and instead requires sole legal custody . In particular , sole legal custody
is required for applicants residing within the jurisdiction of the Fifth and Ninth Circuits of the U.S.
Courts of Appeals.[17] If there is no controlling law in a particular jurisdiction stating that sole legal
custody is required, joint custody is suf ficient to satisfy the legal custody requirement under former INA
321.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2517/2618