Criterion 6:  Evidence of the beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in
professional journals, or other major media.[32]
Publications in professionally-relevant journals; and
Published conference presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.[33]
Considerations:
In order to meet this criterion, the beneficiary must be a listed author of the submitted article or
articles but need not be the sole or first author . A petitioner need not provide evidence that the
beneficiary’ s published work has been cited to meet this criterion.[34]
In addition, the articles must be scholarly . In the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on
original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert
in the field who is often af filiated with a college, university , or research institution. The article is
normally peer-reviewed.
In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography , and may include graphs, charts,
videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. In non-academic arenas,
a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field.
Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major
trade publication, or major media publication.
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication,
or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade
publications)[35] and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications
and other major media).
Criterion 7:  Evidence that the beneficiary has been employed in a critical or essential
capacity for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation.[36]
First, USCIS determines whether the person has performed in a leading or critical role for an
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment.
Examples of relevant evidence may include, but are not limited to:
Faculty or research position for a distinguished academic department or program;
Research position for a distinguished non-academic institution, government or quasi-
governmental entity , or company;
Principal or named investigator for a department, institution, or business that received a merit-
based government award, such as an academic research or Small Business Innovation
Research (SBIR) grant;[37]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 541/2618