[^ 8] See INA 342.
Chapter 2 - Grounds for Revocation of Naturalization
In general, a person is subject to revocation of naturalization on the following grounds:
A. Person Procures Naturalization Illegally
A person is subject to revocation of naturalization if he or she procured naturalization illegally .
Procuring naturalization illegally simply means that the person was not eligible for naturalization in the
first place. Accordingly , any eligibility requirement for naturalization that was not met can form the
basis for an action to revoke the naturalization of a person. This includes the requirements of
residence, physical presence, lawful admission for permanent residence, good moral character , and
attachment to the U.S. Constitution.[1]
Discovery that a person failed to comply with any of the requirements for naturalization at the time the
person became a U.S. citizen renders his or her naturalization illegally procured. This applies even if
the person is innocent of any willful deception or misrepresentation.[2]
B. Concealment of Material Fact or W illful Misrepresentation[3]
1. Concealment of Material Fact or W illful Misrepresentation
A person is subject to revocation of naturalization if there is deliberate deceit on the part of the person
in misrepresenting or failing to disclose a material fact or facts on his or her naturalization application
and subsequent examination.
In general, a person is subject to revocation of naturalization on this basis if:
The naturalized U.S. citizen misrepresented or concealed some fact;
The misrepresentation or concealment was willful;
The misrepresented or concealed fact or facts were material; and
The naturalized U.S. citizen procured citizenship as a result of the misrepresentation or
concealment.[4]
This ground of revocation includes omissions as well as af firmative misrepresentations. The
misrepresentations can be oral testimony provided during the naturalization interview or can include
information contained on the application submitted by the applicant. The courts determine whether the
misrepresented or concealed fact or facts were material. The test for materiality is whether the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2614/2618