adjust to the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence the status of any alien
granted asylum . . . .”[38]
The Secretary’ s discretionary power is delegated to the of ficer, through DHS and USCIS. Therefore,
when an of ficer exercises discretion in adjudicating a request for an immigration benefit, the of ficer is
exercising discretion on behalf of the Secretary of Homeland Security .
In many cases, the INA  still refers to the Attorney General’ s discretion because the statutory text has
not been changed to reflect the creation of DHS and the transfer of many functions from the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ) to DHS.[39] If USCIS has adjudicative authority over the benefit, the
statute should be read as conferring the power to exercise discretion on the Secretary of Homeland
Security .[40]
4. Discretion
Eligibility Threshold
For discretionary benefits, there is never discretion to grant an immigration benefit if the benefit
requestor has not first met all applicable threshold eligibility requirements.
It is legally permissible to deny an application as a matter of discretion without determining whether
the requestor is otherwise eligible for the benefit.[41] However , the record is essentially incomplete if
USCIS denies an application, petition, or request in its exercise of discretion without making a
determination concerning eligibility .
Therefore, as a matter of policy , officers should generally make a specific determination regarding
eligibility before addressing the exercise of discretion. Where denying the benefit request is
appropriate, the of ficer should generally include in the denial letter his or her determination on all
eligibility requirements, including but not limited to discretionary grounds, if applicable, so that the
reasons for the ultimate denial are clearly reflected in the record.
Lack of Negative Factors
A person’ s threshold eligibility for the benefit sought is generally also a positive factor . Therefore,
absent any negative factors, USCIS ordinarily exercises discretion positively .[42] Generally , if there are
no negative factors to weigh against that positive factor , denial of the benefit would be an
inappropriate use of discretion.
C. Adjudicating Discretionary Benefits
When adjudicating a discretionary benefit, the of ficer should first determine whether the requestor
meets all threshold eligibility requirements. For example, in adjudicating an application for adjustment
of status under INA  245(a), the of ficer should first determine:8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 300/2618