A determination that a petitioner will not receive a BFD EAD and deferred action is not a denial of
Form I-918  or the Application for Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ). A petitioner who does not
receive a BFD EAD and deferred action is evaluated for waiting list eligibility and still has the
opportunity to obtain employment authorization and a grant of deferred action if deemed eligible for
waiting list placement. Consequently , non-issuance of a BFD EAD is not a final agency action.
Correspondingly , USCIS does not accept or process motions to reopen or reconsider , appeals,[24] or
requests to re-apply for a BFD EAD.
For any qualifying family member who will not receive a BFD EAD, USCIS completes a full
adjudication for that qualifying family member . The full adjudication includes the issuance of Requests
for Evidence (RFEs) to address any deficiencies or concerns identified in the qualifying family
member ’s record but it is not an adjudication for waiting list placement. Because qualifying family
members are “accompanying or following to join” the principal petitioner , they will not be placed on the
waiting list unless the principal petitioner was placed on the waiting list.[25]
If the qualifying family member resolves the deficiencies or concerns in the record, USCIS issues a
BFD EAD and grants deferred action to the qualifying family member . If additional evidence provided
by the qualifying family member does not resolve the deficiencies or concerns identified, then USCIS
does not issue a BFD EAD and generally places the qualifying family member ’s petition with the
principal petition back in line to await a final statutory cap adjudication.
When USCIS issues a final decision to the principal petitioner , USCIS also issues a final decision for
any qualifying family member who did not receive a BFD EAD. USCIS retains the authority to deny
any petition when, after full adjudication, USCIS determines the qualifying family member is ineligible
for the underlying benefit.
For example, USCIS may deny the petition where the record establishes that the claimed family
member does not have a qualifying family relationship with the petitioner , or where USCIS determines
a favorable exercise of discretion is not warranted to waive the qualifying family member ’s grounds of
inadmissibility .
1. Criminal History Check for Bona Fide Determination Employment Authorization Documents
To efficiently determine whether to issue BFD EADs and grant deferred action, USCIS conducts
background and security checks to identify petitioners who may pose risks to national security and
public safety , or other adverse discretionary factors. USCIS relies on a variety of databases that
collect information from law enforcement agencies and other federal, state, local, and tribal agencies,
including information regarding arrests and convictions.
USCIS uses this information to determine whether a petitioner is admissible for the purposes of
receiving a grant of U nonimmigrant status or merits a favorable exercise of discretion to waive any
grounds of inadmissibility . USCIS’  consideration of national security and public safety risks at the BFD8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 734/2618