Final Action Dates chart indicates that the alien’ s visa has become available. However , on July 1, the
alien’ s visa retrogresses based on the Final Action Dates chart and the visa becomes unavailable.
For this case, USCIS calculates the alien’ s CSP A age using May 1 as the visa availability date. If the
alien’ s calculated CSP A age is under 21, his or her CSP A age is locked in through final adjudication
and USCIS holds the application until the visa next becomes available based on the Final Action
Dates chart.
Example: Application Filed Based on Final Action Dates Chart
On May 1, the Final Action Dates chart indicates a visa is available for the alien’ s immigrant
preference category , priority date, and country of chargeability . The alien files an adjustment of status
application in June, and then the visa becomes unavailable on July 1, based on the Final Action Dates
chart. For this case, USCIS calculates the alien’ s CSP A age using May 1 as the visa availability date.
If the alien’ s calculated CSP A age is under 21, his or her CSP A age is locked in through final
adjudication and USCIS holds the application until the visa next becomes available.
For both examples, if the alien’ s calculated CSP A age is 21 or older using the May 1 visa availability
date, the alien has aged out and is not eligible to be considered a child when the visa next becomes
available. In these cases, USCIS denies the adjustment of status application if the alien is not eligible
to adjust status under another immigrant category .[42]
Visa W as Available but Becomes Unavailable Before an Application is Filed
If a visa initially becomes available based on the Final Action Dates chart and then becomes
unavailable[43] before the alien files an adjustment application, his or her CSP A age is not locked in.
When the visa next becomes available based on the Final Action Dates chart and the alien files an
adjustment application, his or her CSP A age is calculated based on the new visa availability date. If
the alien’ s CSP A age is over 21 at the time the visa next becomes available, the alien is no longer
considered a child for immigration purposes under CSP A.
Example: V isa Becomes Unavailable Before Filing
On May 1, the Final Action Dates chart indicates a visa is available for the alien’ s immigrant
preference category , priority date, and country of chargeability . On July 1, the visa becomes
unavailable before the alien files an adjustment of status application. Because the alien has not yet
filed an adjustment of status application, his or her CSP A age is not locked and will be calculated
using the next visa availability date based on the Final Action Dates chart if the alien timely files an
adjustment of status application.
G. Sought to Acquire Requirement8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1483/2618