There must be both a physical or mental disorder and harmful behavior to make an applicant
inadmissible based on this ground. Neither harmful behavior nor a physical or mental disorder alone
renders an applicant inadmissible on this ground. Harmful behavior is defined as behavior that may
pose, or has posed, a threat to the property , safety , or welfare of the applicant or others.
A physical disorder is a currently accepted medical diagnosis as defined by the current edition of the
Manual of International Classification of Diseases, Injuries, and Causes of Death published by the
World Health Organization or by another authoritative source as determined by the Director .[3] Officers
should consult the Technical Instructions for additional information, if needed.
A mental disorder is a currently accepted psychiatric diagnosis, as defined by the current edition of the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric
Association or by another authoritative source as determined by the Director .[4] Officers should consult
the Technical Instructions for additional information, if needed.
Under the Technical Instructions, a diagnosis of substance abuse/addiction for a substance that is not
listed in Section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (with current associated harmful behavior or a
history of associated harmful behavior judged likely to recur) is classified as a mental disorder .[5]
Under prior Technical Instructions and the July 20, 2010 or older versions of the form, these conditions
were summarized under the drug abuse/addiction part of the form. An of ficer, however , should not find
an applicant inadmissible for “drug abuse/addiction” if a non-controlled substance is involved.
B. Relevance of Alcohol-Related Driving Arrests or Convictions
1. Alcohol Use and Driving
Alcohol is not listed in Section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act.[6] Therefore, alcohol use
disorders are treated as a physical or mental disorder for purposes of determining inadmissibility . As a
result, an applicant with an alcohol use disorder will not be deemed inadmissible unless there is
current associated harmful behavior or past associated harmful behavior likely to recur . The harmful
behavior must be such that it poses, has posed, or is likely to pose a threat to the property , safety , or
welfare of the applicant or others. 
In the course of adjudicating benefit applications, of ficers frequently encounter criminal histories that
include arrests and/or convictions for alcohol-related driving incidents, such as DUI (driving under the
influence) and DWI (driving while intoxicated). These histories may or may not rise to the level of a
criminal ground of inadmissibility .[7] A record of criminal arrests and/or convictions for alcohol-related
driving incidents may constitute evidence of a health-related inadmissibility as a physical or mental
disorder with associated harmful behavior .
Operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol is clearly an associated harmful behavior that
poses a threat to the property , safety , or welfare of the applicant or others. Where a civil surgeon’ s8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1913/2618