A USCIS of ficer must verify that the relationship to a qualifying relative exists. When the qualifying
relative is the visa petitioner , an of ficer should use the approval of the Petition for Alien Relative ( Form
I-130 ) as proof that the qualifying relationship has been established.[1]
If the applicant’ s relationship to the qualifying relative has not already been established through a prior
approved petition, the USCIS of ficer must otherwise verify that the relationship to the qualifying
relative exists. Along with the waiver application, applicants should include primary evidence that
supports the relationship, such as marriage certificates,[2] birth certificates, adoption papers, paternity
orders, orders of child support, or other court or of ficial documents. 
If such primary evidence does not exist or is otherwise unavailable, the applicant should explain the
reason for the unavailability and submit secondary evidence of the relationship, such as school
records or records of religious or other community institutions. If secondary evidence is also not
reasonably available, the applicant may submit written testimony from a witness or witnesses with
personal knowledge of the relevant facts.[3] If evidence establishing the relationship is missing or
insuf ficient, the of ficer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) in accordance with USCIS policy .
If the applicant claims that the qualifying relative would suf fer extreme hardship in part due to the
hardship that would be suf fered by a non-qualifying relative, the applicant must submit evidence
establishing the claimed relationships.[4] If such evidence is missing or insuf ficient, the of ficer should
issue an RFE in accordance with USCIS policy .
B. Separation or Relocation
With respect to the requirement that the refusal of the applicant’ s admission “would result in” extreme
hardship to a qualifying relative, there are 2 potential scenarios to consider . Either:
The qualifying relative(s) may remain in the United States separated from the applicant who is
denied admission (separation); or 
The qualifying relative(s) may relocate overseas with the applicant who is denied
admission (relocation). 
In either scenario, depending on all the facts of the particular case, the refusal of admission may result
in extreme hardship to one or more qualifying relatives. 
Separation may result in extreme hardship if refusal of the applicant’ s admission would cause
hardship (for example, suf fering or harm) to a qualifying relative that is greater than the common
consequences of family separation.[5] When assessing extreme hardship claims based on separation,
USCIS focuses on how denial of the applicant’ s admission would af fect the qualifying relative’ s well-
being in the United States given the separation of the qualifying relative from the applicant.
Relocation may result in extreme hardship if refusal of the applicant’ s admission would cause hardship
(for example, suf fering or harm) to a qualifying relative that is greater than the common consequences8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2116/2618