Offenses relating to peonage, slavery , involuntary servitude, and traf ficking in persons;[15]
Aggravated assault;
An of fense relating to child pornography; and
Manufacturing, distributing, or selling of drugs or narcotics.[16]
USCIS may determine that other adverse factors beyond those listed above weigh against a favorable
exercise of discretion.
However , USCIS may also exercise discretion favorably notwithstanding the above concerns if
warranted based on the totality of the circumstances.
2. Comprehensive Review of Adverse Factors During Secondary Review
Recognizing that many factors may influence whether criminal activity is prosecuted and results in a
conviction, an arrest for a serious crime may be relevant to whether USCIS should exercise its
discretion favorably . Therefore, a determination about whether to favorably exercise discretion when
there are any adverse concerns requires a comprehensive review of the available evidence. For
example, of ficers may need to request additional evidence or information in certain cases where
security checks indicate that an applicant has an arrest record.
USCIS does not conduct this in-depth, discretionary review during the BFD process. Instead, if USCIS
determines that an applicant’ s case presents relevant adverse factors that would require further
review , USCIS proceeds to secondary review , which is a full T nonimmigrant status eligibility
adjudication. During the full adjudication of the Form I-914, applicants have the opportunity to provide
USCIS with potentially mitigating information or other evidence pertaining to arrests or convictions.
D. Adjudicative Process
1. Bona Fide Determination
When USCIS determines a principal applicant and any eligible family members have a bona fide
application and warrant a favorable exercise of discretion, USCIS may grant deferred action and
issues a BFD EAD.
2. Prima Facie Case for Approval 
Where USCIS determines that an application is bona fide, the applicant is also considered to have
established a prima facie case for approval for purposes of an administrative stay of removal.[17] The
term “prima facie” refers to an application appearing suf ficient on its face.
The steps taken to determine whether an application is bona fide and whether an applicant may
receive deferred action through the BFD process rely on the initial evidence submitted with an
application for T nonimmigrant status, as well as the results of background checks. The determination
of whether an applicant is eligible for T nonimmigrant status is a more complex evaluation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 699/2618