--- Page 2291 ---

include providing a sign language interpreter , additional time for the examination, or scheduling an
applicant for an of f-site examination.
B. Documentation and Evidence
USCIS evaluates each request for an accommodation on a case-by-case basis. While an applicant is
not required to include documentation of his or her medical condition, there may be rare cases where
documentation is needed to evaluate the request.[1]
C. Providing Accommodations as Requested
If an accommodation is warranted, a field of fice should provide the accommodation on the date and
time the applicant is scheduled for his or her appearance. The field of fice should aim to provide the
requested accommodation without having to reschedule the applicant’ s appointment. If an
accommodation cannot be provided for the scheduled appointment, the applicant and his or her
attorney or accredited representative should be notified as soon as possible. The applicant’ s
appointment should be rescheduled within a reasonable period of time.
Footnote
[^ 1] Officers should contact local USCIS counsel prior to contacting the applicant and his or her
attorney or accredited representative for further information.
Chapter 3 - Types of Accommodations
There are many types of accommodations that USCIS provides for applicants with disabilities.
[1] Accommodations typically relate to the following:
Naturalization interview;
Naturalization test; and
Oath of Allegiance.
Each accommodation may apply to any aspect of the naturalization process as needed, to include any
pre-examination procedures.
USCIS recognizes that some applicants may only require one accommodation, while others may need
more. Some applicants may need one accommodation at a particular stage of the naturalization
process and may require the same or another type of accommodation at a later date. 
A. Accommodations for the Naturalization Examination8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2291/2618