request for the applicant to submit a status information letter and registration acknowledgement card
before concluding that he failed to register .
The status information letter will indicate whether a requirement to register existed. The applicant must
show by a preponderance of the evidence that his failure to register was not a knowing or willful act.[9]
Failure on the part of USCIS or SSS to complete the process on behalf of the applicant, however , will
not constitute a willful failure to register on the part of the applicant.
The denial notice in cases where willful failure to register is established may also show that in addition
to failing to register , the applicant is not well disposed to the good order and happiness of the United
States. This determination depends on the applicant’ s age at the time of filing the application and up
until the time of the oath: 
Applicants Under 26 Years of Age
The applicant is generally ineligible. 
Applicants Between 26 and 31 Years of Age
The applicant may be ineligible for naturalization. USCIS will allow the applicant an opportunity to
show that he did not knowingly or willfully fail to register , or that he was not required to do so.
Applicants Over 31 Years of Age
The applicant is eligible. This is the case even if the applicant knowingly and willfully failed to register
because the applicant’ s failure to register would be outside of the statutory period.
3. Males Not Required to Register
The following classes of males are not required to register for Selective Service:
Males over the age of 26;
Males who did not live in the United States between the ages of 18 and 26 years;
Males who lived in the United States between the ages of 18 and 26 years but who maintained
lawful nonimmigrant status for the entire period; and
 Males born after March 29, 1957 and before December 31, 1959.[10]
C. Draft Evaders
In general, the law prohibits draft evaders and deserters from the U.S. armed forces during wartime
from naturalizing for lack of attachment to the Constitution and favorable disposition to the good order
of the United States.[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2358/2618