The marriage was not entered into for purposes of evading the immigration laws of the United
States.[3]
In general, USCIS requires that an applicant for naturalization must have an approved petition to
remove conditions before an of ficer adjudicates the naturalization application. However , certain CPRs
may be eligible for naturalization without filing a petition or having the conditions removed if applying
for naturalization on the basis of:
Marriage to a U.S. citizen employed abroad; or 
Qualifying military service.[4]
B. Spouses who Must Have an Approved Petition Prior to Naturalization
In all cases, a CPR applying for naturalization on the basis of marriage must have an approved
petition prior to naturalization if the CPR:
Has a pending petition to remove conditions at the time of filing the Application for Naturalization;
or
Reaches the 90-day period to file the petition to remove conditions prior to taking the Oath of
Allegiance.[5]
1. Spouses who Reach Petition Filing Period Prior to Naturalization
In most cases, the 90-day period for filing the petition to remove conditions will have passed prior to
an applicant becoming eligible to apply for naturalization. However , in some cases involving applicants
whose citizen spouse is employed abroad and in cases in which a late filing of the petition to remove
conditions is permitted, the 90-day filing period will start after filing for naturalization.
Under these circumstances, the applicant must file the petition to remove conditions and the petition
must be adjudicated prior to or concurrently with the naturalization application.
2. Spouses with Pending Petitions and Naturalization Applications
An application for naturalization may not be approved if there is a pending petition for removal of
conditions. If an applicant’ s petition to remove conditions is pending at the time of filing or is filed prior
to the interview , USCIS will adjudicate the petition to remove conditions prior to or concurrently with
the adjudication of the naturalization application.[6]
3. Failure to File or Denial of the Petition to Remove Conditions
The CPR status of an applicant is terminated and he or she must be placed into removal proceedings
if:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2451/2618