Part J - Trainees (H-3)
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures.
See more
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 31 - Petitions for Temporary W orkers (H Classifications) (External)
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
The H-3 nonimmigrant visa category allows aliens to come temporarily to the United States as either
a:
Trainee who seeks to enter the United States at the invitation of an organization or person to
receive training in any field of endeavor , other than graduate medical education or training;[1] or 
Special Education Exchange V isitor who seeks to participate in a structured special education
exchange visitor training program that provides for practical training and experience in the
education of children with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities.[2]
The H-3 nonimmigrant classification is not intended for productive employment. Rather , the H-3
program is designed to provide a person with job-related training that is not available in their country
for work that will ultimately be performed outside the United States.
H-3 trainees generally cannot participate in training provided primarily at or by an academic or
vocational institution.[3] However , so long as other H-3 requirements are met, training which happens
to take place on the physical property of an academic or vocational institution may qualify if the
training program is primarily created, of fered, and sponsored by a government agency or other non-
academic or non-vocational entity .
B. Background8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 445/2618