The standard of proof refers to the quality and weight of the evidence required to prove a fact. The
standard of proof to establish eligibility for a self-petition is preponderance of the evidence.[11]
Establishing eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence means that it is more likely than not that the
self-petitioner qualifies for the benefit. This is a lower standard of proof than both the “clear and
convincing” and “beyond a reasonable doubt” standards of proof. The burden is on self-petitioners to
demonstrate their eligibility for the self-petition by a preponderance of the evidence.[12]
2. Any Credible Evidence Provision
Generally , petitioners are required to submit primary or secondary evidence with a family-based
immigrant visa petition.[13] Although V iolence Against W omen Act (V AWA) self-petitioners are
encouraged to submit primary or secondary evidence whenever possible, an of ficer must consider any
credible evidence a self-petitioner submits to establish eligibility .[14] The determination of what
evidence is credible and the weight to be given to the evidence is within the sole discretion of USCIS.
[15]
For V AWA self-petitioners, the abusive family member may control access to or destroy necessary
documents in furtherance of the abuse, which may prevent the applicant from being able to submit
specific documentation. Other self-petitioners may have fled the abusive situation without taking
important documents with them.
Congress created the “any credible evidence” standard for V AWA filings in recognition of these
evidentiary challenges. Of ficers should be aware of and consider these issues when evaluating the
evidence.
Weighing and Determining the Credibility of Evidence
A self-petition may not be denied for failure to submit a particular piece of evidence.[16] An of ficer may
only deny a self-petition on evidentiary grounds if the evidence that was submitted is not credible or
otherwise fails to establish eligibility . Officers may not require that the self-petitioner demonstrate the
unavailability of primary evidence or a specific document. An explanation from the self-petitioner ,
however , regarding the unavailability of such documents may assist of ficers in adjudicating the case.
Officers determine what evidence is credible on a case-by-case basis. Often, evidence that is credible
in one setting will not be so in another . Officers should consider whether the evidence may be credible
or not on either an internal or external basis.
For example, evidence that is inconsistent with the other elements of the self-petition is likely not
internally credible; and evidence that does not conform to external facts, such as information
contained in USCIS electronic databases, is likely not credible on an external basis. Of ficers should
carefully review evidence in both these regards before making a credibility determination. The
determination of what is credible will often also be a function of other elements in the case.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 807/2618