Material in A-files filed pursuant to the Special Agricultural W orkers (SA W) program is protected by
strict confidentiality provisions.[51] The statute provides that the employee who knowingly uses,
publishes, or permits information to be examined in violation of the confidentiality provisions may be
fined not more than $10,000.[52]
In general, USCIS may not use information furnished by the SA W applicant for any purpose other than
to make a determination on the application, for termination of temporary residence, or for enforcement
actions relating to false statements in applications.[53] The applicant may not waive the confidentiality
provisions, which even survive the death of the applicant.
2. USCIS Assistance
In general, it is permissible for USCIS employees to disclose only that an applicant has applied for
SAW and the outcome of the adjudication. Case information may be provided to the applicant and the
applicant’ s attorney or authorized representative (with a properly completed Form G-28  on file) after
the inquirer ’s identity has been verified. No other parties are authorized to receive SA W information,
unless one of the enumerated exceptions to disclosure noted below applies.
3. Exceptions for Disclosure
It is appropriate for DHS and DOJ employees to have access to SA W material. The materials are
subject to the above-mentioned penalties for unlawful use, publication, or release. USCIS is permitted
to disclose information pertaining to SA W cases in certain, limited circumstances. These
circumstances include:
Law Enforcement Purposes
USCIS is required to disclose information to a law enforcement entity in connection with a criminal
investigation or prosecution, when that information is requested in writing.
Requested by an Official Coroner
USCIS is also required to disclose information to an of ficial coroner for purposes of af firmatively
identifying a deceased person (whether or not the person died as a result of a crime).
Criminal Convictions
Information concerning whether the SA W applicant has at any time been convicted of a crime may be
used or released for immigration enforcement or law enforcement purposes.
J. S Nonimmigrant V isa Category
Nonimmigrants under the S visa category are alien witnesses or informants. An S nonimmigrant is not
readily identified in USCIS systems. However , if a USCIS employee discovers that an inquiry is from8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 192/2618