Letters may be persuasive when they are from experts in the person’ s field who have first-hand
knowledge of the person’ s achievements, describe those achievements, provide specific examples of
how the person is well positioned to advance the person’ s endeavor , and are supported by other
independent evidence. Business plans or other similar descriptions of the person’ s plans, while useful
in explaining the person’ s objectives, should be supported by other independent evidence.
In each case, of ficers must consider the totality of circumstances to determine whether the
preponderance of evidence establishes that the person is well positioned to advance the proposed
endeavor .
USCIS decides each petition on a case-by-case basis, and the more integral a person is to an
endeavor , the stronger the case the person presents that they are well-positioned to advance the
endeavor .
Third Prong: On Balance, it Would be Beneficial to the United States to W aive the Job Offer and thus
the Permanent Labor Certification Requirements
Once of ficers have determined that the petitioner met the first two prongs, they proceed with the
analysis of the third prong. This last prong requires the petitioner to demonstrate that the factors in
favor of granting the waiver outweigh those that support the requirement of a job of fer and thus a labor
certification, which is intended to ensure that the admission of foreign workers will not adversely af fect
the job opportunities, wages, and working conditions of U.S. workers.[80]
A person is not precluded from seeking a national interest waiver because the person’ s employer has
applied or could apply to DOL  for a labor certification. Congress sought to protect U.S. workers and
wages through the labor certification program, and Congress also recognized that in certain instances
the national interest is better served by a waiver of the job of fer and thus the labor certification
requirement. In such cases, a national interest waiver outweighs the benefits inherent to the labor
certification process, which primarily focuses on a geographically limited labor market. Within the
context of national interest waiver adjudications, Congress entrusted the Secretary of Homeland
Security to balance this interest.
For the third prong, an of ficer assesses whether the person’ s endeavor and the person being well-
positioned to advance that endeavor , taken together , provide benefits to the nation such that a waiver
of the labor certification requirement outweighs the benefits that ordinarily flow from that requirement.
For example, in the case of an entrepreneur , where the person is self-employed in a manner that
generally does not adversely af fect U.S. workers,[81] or where the petitioner establishes or owns a
business that provides jobs for U.S. workers, there may be little benefit from the labor certification.
In establishing eligibility for the third prong, petitioners may submit evidence relating to one or more of
the following factors, as outlined in Matter of Dhanasar :8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1208/2618