4. Commuter
A commuter must have taken up permanent residence (principal dwelling place) in the United States
for the required statutory period and must meet the residency requirements to be eligible for
naturalization.[9]
5. Residence in Multiple States
If an applicant claims residence in more than one state, the residence for purposes of naturalization
will be determined by the location from which the applicant’ s annual federal income tax returns have
been and are being filed.[10]
6. Residence During Absences of Less than One Year
An applicant's residence during any absence abroad of less than one year will continue to be the state
or service district where the applicant resided before departure. If the applicant returns to the same
residence, he or she will have complied with the three-month jurisdictional residence requirement
when at least three months have elapsed, including any part of the absence, from when the applicant
first established that residence.[11]
If the applicant establishes residence in a dif ferent state or service district from where he or she last
resided, the applicant must reside three months at that new residence before applying in order to meet
the three-month jurisdictional residence requirement.[12]
7. Nationals, but not Citizens, of the United States
A national, but not citizen, may naturalize if he or she becomes a resident of any state and is
otherwise qualified.[13] Nationals, but not citizens, will satisfy the continuous residence and physical
presence requirements while residing in an outlying possession. Such applicants must reside for three
months prior to filing in a state or service district to be eligible for naturalization.
D. 90-Day Early Filing Provision (INA  334)
An applicant filing under the general naturalization provision may file his or her application up to 90
days before he or she would first meet the required 5-year period of continuous residence as an LPR.
[14] Although an applicant may file early according to the 90 day early filing provision, the applicant is
not eligible for naturalization until he or she has reached the required five-year period of continuous
residence as a lawful permanent resident (LPR).
USCIS calculates the early filing period by counting back 90 days from the day before the applicant
would have first satisfied the continuous residence requirement for naturalization. For example, if the
applicant would satisfy the five-year continuous residence requirement for the first time on June 10,8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2354/2618