should request expedited processing for an electronic or domestically-filed petition. Local consular or
USCIS staf f should inform the petitioner of the process to request expedited adjudication.[14]
C. Procedures for Local Filings
DOS may accept and adjudicate a clearly approvable local Form I-130 filed by a U.S. citizen petitioner
outside the United States for an immediate relative if the U.S. citizen petitioner establishes exceptional
circumstances or meets blanket authorization criteria defined by USCIS.
If DOS declines to accept a local filing, DOS informs the petitioner of its decision and of the process
for filing the Form I-130 at a USCIS lockbox or online in accordance with the USCIS filing instructions.
The petitioner does not have the right to appeal, motion, or otherwise request reconsideration of a
USCIS or DOS decision to decline acceptance of a local filing. Although this local filing process is
designed to facilitate expedited processing of cases abroad in exceptional circumstances, it is not the
only way to file a petition or seek expedited adjudication. If not permitted to file locally abroad, a
petitioner may still file a Form I-130 petition with a USCIS lockbox or online and may request
expedited processing for that petition in accordance with the published USCIS expedite process and
criteria.[15]
DOS may approve only those Form I-130 petitions that are clearly approvable.[16]
If DOS accepts a petition and determines the petition is not clearly approvable, DOS forwards the
petition to the USCIS of fice designated to adjudicate such petitions.[17]
If DOS approves a Form I-130 petition but that U.S. embassy or consulate does not issue immigrant
visas, the Consular Section coordinates with the appropriate embassy or consulate with jurisdiction to
issue a visa in accordance with DOS guidelines.
Although USCIS has delegated authority to DOS to accept Form I-130 petitions in all locations abroad
in the limited instances described above, USCIS retains authority to accept and adjudicate a local
Form I-130 filing abroad or conduct an in-person interview abroad as warranted, regardless of where
or how the petition was filed.
D. Multiple Petitions
Multiple Form I-130 Petitions for the Same Beneficiary and Classification
In some cases, the  petitioner may file more than one petition on behalf of the same beneficiary for the
same immigrant classification.[18] If a Form I-130 petition and subsequent Form I-130 petition filed by
the same petitioner for the same beneficiary and for the same classification are approved, USCIS
regards the subsequent petition approval as a reaf firmation or reinstatement of the validity of the first
petition. Prior to approving, reaf firming, or reinstating a subsequent petition filed by the same petitioner8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1066/2618