For example, if USCIS finds a self-petitioner ’s testimony in an af fidavit to be inconsistent internally or
inconsistent with other evidence, of ficers could determine in their discretion that the evidentiary value
of that af fidavit may be diminished. However , officers could determine in their discretion that minor
inconsistencies regarding information that is not material to the self-petitioner ’s eligibility would not
likely diminish the evidentiary value of the self-petitioner ’s affidavit.
Some general principles are applicable in making a credibility determination. Of ficers generally should
give more weight to primary evidence and evidence provided in court documents, medical reports,
police reports, and other of ficial documents.[17] Self-petitioners who submit af fidavits are encouraged,
but not required, to provide af fidavits from more than one person. Any form of documentary evidence
may be submitted, and the absence of a particular form or piece of evidence is not grounds for denial
of the self-petition.
USCIS may issue an RFE or a Notice of Intent to Deny to notify self-petitioners of deficiencies in the
self-petition and to allow them an opportunity to respond before issuing a final decision.[18]
C. Decision
1. Discretion
The decision to approve or deny a self-petition is not discretionary .[19] If USCIS determines that the
alien meets all the eligibility requirements for the self-petition, USCIS approves the self-petition. If
derogatory information unrelated to eligibility for the self-petition is discovered, the of ficer may forward
the information to an investigation unit for appropriate action. Unless the derogatory information
relates to eligibility for the self-petition, however , such information cannot serve as the basis for a
denial.
2. Approvals
If USCIS determines that the facts and information provided with the Form I-360 demonstrate eligibility
by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS approves the self-petition.
Self-petitioning spouses, children, and parents of abusive U.S. citizens are considered immediate
relatives and make seek adjustment of status or an immigrant visa immediately after approval of the
self-petition, as a visa is immediately available for this category of family-based immigrants.[20]
Immediate relatives in the United States also have the option to file an application for adjustment of
status concurrently with the self-petition, as the visa is immediately available after the petition is
approved.[21]
Self-petitioning spouses and children of abusive LPRs receive a visa number from a family-based
preference category when the self-petition is approved and may file an application for adjustment of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 808/2618