continue to exist at the time of adjustment of status or admission for the derivative beneficiary to
remain eligible for adjustment or admission.[52]
Dependent Child of an LPR
In some cases, the child of an LPR may qualify either as a principal beneficiary based on a petition
filed on behalf of the child, or as a derivative beneficiary through a petition filed by the LPR on behalf
of the child’ s alien parent. The child can only qualify as the principal beneficiary of a petition filed by
the LPR if the child has the requisite child-parent relationship to the LPR petitioner .[53]
For example, a stepchild of an LPR, who was age 18 or older at the time the LPR married the
stepchild’ s alien parent, would only qualify for an immigrant visa as a derivative beneficiary of a
petition filed on behalf of the alien parent. In this situation, the stepchild would not qualify as a principal
beneficiary because the marriage creating the step-relationship did not occur before the child turned
18.[54]
An LPR petitioner may decide to file one petition (for the spouse as the principal beneficiary and the
spouse’ s children as derivative beneficiaries) or separate petitions for each qualifying family member
(one for the spouse and one for each of the spouse’ s children). A child accompanying or following to
join a principal beneficiary under INA  203(a)(2) of the Act may be included in the principal beneficiary's
second preference visa petition.[55] If the principal beneficiary dies, the remaining derivative
beneficiaries may be eligible for relief under INA 204(l)  without the need for new petitions. However ,
the petitioner may file new petitions if a qualifying relationship still exists with the derivative
beneficiaries.
If the petitioner chooses to file separate petitions, each alien beneficiary can immigrate independently .
For example, if one child needs to immigrate before the others are ready to travel, that child may do so
as the principal beneficiary of a petition.
Additionally , if a petition is filed separately on behalf of the child, the child may independently adjust
status based on the child’ s relationship to the LPR parent, whereas a derivative beneficiary’ s eligibility
to adjust status is tied to the principal beneficiary parent’ s eligibility . If the LPR parent naturalizes after
filing an immigrant visa petition for the principal beneficiary , the petition converts to an immediate
relative petition and the child is no longer eligible as a derivative beneficiary . In this situation, the
petitioner must file a new petition on behalf of the child as an immediate relative.[56]
Footnotes
[^ 1] A person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United
States (for example, persons born in American Samoa or Swains Island). See definition in Glossary .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1058/2618