DHS reviews on a case-by-case basis whether the F-1 student will be a bona fide employee of the
employer signing the training plan and verify that the employer that signs the training plan is the same
entity that employs the F-1 student and provides the practical training experience.[49]
Validity Period
If the F-1 student establishes eligibility , DHS grants the STEM OPT  24-month extension for a fixed and
uninterrupted period of 24 consecutive months.
The STEM OPT  extension begins the day after the initial post-completion OPT  expires, not on the
date of adjudication, and ends 24 months thereafter , regardless of the date the actual extension is
approved.[50] Filing during the cap-gap extension does not change the STEM OPT  extension start
date. STEM OPT  is not extended by periods of part-time employment or unemployment.
The 14-month limit on completing post-completion OPT  does not apply to the STEM OPT  extension.
[51]
If the Form I-765  for the STEM OPT  extension is denied and the student’ s post-completion OPT  EAD
is expired, OPT  employment authorization ends on the date of the decision and the student’ s F-1
status ends 60 days after the date of denial. If the Form I-765 for the STEM OPT  extension is denied
and the student’ s post-completion OPT  EAD is unexpired, the student will remain employment
authorized until the expiration date of the EAD.
If the F-1 student’ s degree area is changed from a non-STEM degree to a STEM degree during the
last semester , the adjudicating of ficer may , on a case-by-case basis, request evidence to support the
basis of the change.
Evaluation Requirement
An F-1 student on a STEM OPT  extension must submit a self-evaluation of the student’ s progress
toward the training goals described in the Form I-983 .[52] All required evaluations must be completed
prior to the conclusion of a STEM practical training opportunity , and the F-1 student and an
appropriate individual in the employer ’s organization must sign each evaluation to attest to its
accuracy . All STEM practical training opportunities require an initial evaluation within 12 months of the
approved starting date on the EAD granted pursuant to the F-1 student’ s 24-month OPT  extension
application, and a concluding evaluation. The F-1 student is responsible for ensuring the DSO
receives the F-1 student’ s 12-month evaluation and final evaluation no later than 10 days following the
conclusion of the reporting period or conclusion of the student’ s practical training opportunity ,
respectively .
Training Plan Modifications  
An F-1 student on a STEM OPT  extension also must:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 402/2618