Criterion 7:  Evidence that the beneficiary has been employed in a critical or essential
capacity for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation.[36]
Member of a key committee or high-performing team within a distinguished organization;
Founder or co-founder of, or contributor of intellectual property to, a startup business that has
a distinguished reputation; and
Critical or essential supporting role for a distinguished organization or a distinguished division
of an institution, government or quasi-governmental entity , or company , as explained in detail
by the director or a principal investigator of the relevant organization or division.
Considerations:
To show a critical role, the evidence should establish that the beneficiary has contributed in a way
that is of significant importance to the organization or establishment’ s activities. To show an
essential role, the evidence should establish that the beneficiary’ s role is (or was) integral to the
entity . A leadership role in an organization often qualifies as critical or essential.
For a supporting role to be considered critical or essential, USCIS considers other factors, such as
whether the beneficiary’ s performance in the role is (or was) integral or important to the organization
or establishment’ s goals or activities, especially in relation to others in similar positions within the
organization.
It is not the title of the beneficiary’ s role, but rather the beneficiary’ s duties and performance in the
role that determines whether the role is (or was) critical or essential. Detailed letters from persons
with personal knowledge of the significance of the beneficiary’ s role can be particularly helpful in
analyzing this criterion. The organization need not have directly employed the beneficiary .
Similarly , a letter or other documentation from an interested government agency , including a quasi-
governmental entity , can serve as relevant evidence if it demonstrates that the agency or entity
either funds the beneficiary or funds work in which the beneficiary has a critical or essential role,
and explains this role in the funded work.
Second, USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division
for which the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation.
Relevant factors for evaluating the reputation of an organization or establishment can include the
scale of its customer base, longevity , or relevant media coverage.
For academic departments, programs, and institutions, of ficers may also consider national rankings
and receipt of government research grants as positive factors in some cases.
For a startup business, of ficers may consider evidence that the business has received significant
funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or other such funders8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 542/2618