the immigration medical examination and that any information provided in relation to the examination
is truthful.
Whenever the civil surgeon orders a test that they do not perform personally , the civil surgeon must
ensure that the physician or staf f to whom the applicant is referred checks the identity of the applicant
by requesting a government-issued ID.[16]
An of ficer should follow the chart below to determine whether the applicant or a legal guardian must
sign the form.[17]
Signature of the Applicant
Age of
ApplicantSignature Requirement
Age 14 and
OlderThe applicant must sign Form I-693 . However , a legal guardian may sign for a
mentally incompetent person.
Under Age
14Either the applicant, a parent, or legal guardian may sign the Form I-693 . The of ficer
should not reject the form as improperly completed if only the applicant, parent, or
guardian signs.
Signature of Physicians Receiving Referrals for Evaluation
If the civil surgeon is unable to perform a particular medical assessment, the civil surgeon is required
to refer the applicant to another physician. The physician receiving the referral is required to complete
the appropriate section on Form I-693  after the civil surgeon has completed the evaluation of the
applicant’ s condition. The civil surgeon may not sign the civil surgeon’ s certification on the form until
the civil surgeon has received and reviewed the report of the physician who received the referral. If the
referring physician ordered treatment, the civil surgeon may not sign the certification until the
treatment has been completed.
Contracted services used by the civil surgeon to complete a step in the medical examination are not
considered referrals. Therefore, the referral section can be blank in such cases.[18] For example, if the
civil surgeon uses a contractor to draw blood, the referral section does not have to be completed.
However , if the CDC's Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons require a referral to the health
department because of the applicant’ s Tuberculosis (TB) classification, the of ficer must make sure that
the referral section is completed.
The of ficer must closely examine the TB results and should not issue an RFE for a TB health
department referral if the applicant was found to have latent TB infection. In this circumstance, the civil
surgeon is required only to report to the health department, not refer . The reporting process is not
captured on Form I-693.[19]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1903/2618