USCIS recognizes that normal raises occur through the passage of time to account for inflation or
promotion. USCIS also recognizes that there may be dif ferences in pay due to varying rates of pay in
different economic sectors or geographic locations, as well as other factors, such as corporate
mergers, size of employer , or dif ferences in compensation structure. Additionally , there could be
differences in wages in cases involving moves from for-profit employers to nonprofit employers,
academic institutions, or public employers (or vice versa).
Applicants should explain in detail any substantial discrepancy in wages between the original position
and the new position. In all instances, of ficers review a dif ference in wages and any explanation for
that dif ference along with all other evidence presented.
C. Making a Portability Request
1. When Required
If an applicant is filing or has filed an adjustment application as the principal beneficiary of a valid
Form I-140 petition in an employment-based immigrant visa category that requires a job of fer, the
applicant must file a Confirmation of a V alid Job Of fer or Request for Job Portability Under INA  Section
204(j) ( Form I-485, Supplement J ) in order to confirm the job of fer remains valid, or to request job
portability under INA  204(j) to a new , full-time, permanent job of fer that he or she intends to accept
once the adjustment application is approved.
Applicants seeking or granted a national interest waiver of the job of fer requirement[41] and applicants
seeking or granted classification as an alien of extraordinary ability[42] do not need to file Supplement
J or request job portability under INA  204(j) because these employment-based immigrant visa
categories are not tied to a specific job of fer.
2. Timing of Request
Applicants may request portability after the adjustment application has been pending 180 days,
including during an adjustment interview or in response to a Request for Evidence or Notice of Intent
to Deny sent by USCIS following a request to withdraw the petition.[43]
3. Format and Suggested Evidence
If the applicant makes a request to port on or after January 17, 2017, the applicant must submit a
Supplement J. If the applicant requested to port before January 17, 2017, the applicant could have
requested to port through a letter . However , even for requests filed before that date, USCIS may
request Supplement J to validate the employment of fer. While the applicant completes the portions of
the supplement pertaining to him or herself, the employer completes the sections pertaining to itself
and the new job.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1646/2618