To demonstrate eligibility for adjustment of status under LRIF , a Liberian principal applicant must
provide evidence to prove Liberian nationality .[27] USCIS considers any and all evidence provided by
the applicant, including the applicant’ s testimony during an interview , to evaluate the applicant’ s
eligibility for adjustment of status.
USCIS does not require the following documents but provides them as examples of primary evidence
that applicants may submit to demonstrate Liberian nationality .
Primary evidence is currently available.[28] Examples of primary evidence that may demonstrate
Liberian nationality include, but are not limited to:
Unexpired Liberian passport; and
Liberian certificate of naturalization.
If an applicant is not able to submit primary evidence, the applicant must demonstrate this. The best
way to demonstrate this is by submitting a written and signed statement from the applicant that
explains all attempts to acquire primary evidence and includes accompanying records
that demonstrate these attempts (as examples, accompanying records may include proof of an
application for a Liberian passport, proof of an application to renew an expired Liberian passport, proof
of communication with the relevant Liberian government authorities that issue primary evidence, or
receipts of transactions to obtain or replace primary evidence).
In addition to this statement (and any evidence supporting this statement), the applicant must submit
secondary evidence of Liberian nationality . Examples of secondary evidence that may support an
applicant’ s claim of Liberian nationality include, but are not limited to:
Expired Liberian passports;
Liberian baptismal records or other religious documents;
Liberian school records; and
Liberian medical records.
Applicants should submit all evidence available to them. All forms of secondary evidence may support
an applicant's claim of Liberian nationality as part of the totality of the evidence.
2. Continuous Physical Presence
A Liberian principal applicant must submit evidence that he or she was physically present in the United
States for a continuous period beginning on November 20, 2014, and ending on the date he or she
properly files the LRIF-based adjustment application. For purposes of LRIF , USCIS considers an
applicant who left the United States for one or more periods amounting to more than 180 days in the
aggregate (total) to have failed to have maintained continuous physical presence.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1862/2618