B. Principal Asylee Continues to Meet the Definition of a Refugee
In order to be eligible for asylee status, the principal asylee had to show a well-founded fear of
persecution based on at least one of five statutory grounds: 
Race;
 Religion;
Nationality;
 Membership in a particular social group; or
 Political opinion.
If an applicant no longer meets the definition of a refugee,[4] he or she is not eligible to adjust status
as an asylee. In general, at the time of adjustment, an of ficer will not readjudicate the asylum claim.
However , if there is new evidence that the asylee may not have met the definition of a refugee at the
time of the asylum grant, the of ficer should refer the case to the Asylum Division within the Refugee,
Asylum, and International Operations Directorate or to an immigration judge for termination of status.
[5]
C. Derivative Asylee Continues to be the Spouse or Child of the Principal Asylee
A derivative asylee must continue to meet the definition of a spouse or child of a refugee both at the
time of filing and final adjudication of the adjustment application. A derivative asylee spouse fails to
meet this eligibility requirement if the marital relationship has ended. A derivative child fails to meet this
requirement if he or she marries or no longer meets the definition of a child.[6] Likewise, if the principal
is no longer a refugee or adjusted asylee at the time a derivative seeks to adjust status, then the
derivative asylee will no longer qualify . 
A derivative asylee who fails to meet this requirement does not lose his or her asylum status when the
relationship to the principal asylee ends or when the principal asylee naturalizes. A
derivative asylee only loses the ability to adjust status as a derivative asylee, but may adjust status
under another category if he or she can establish eligibility . 
1. Surviving Spouse or Child of a Deceased Principal Asylee
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) was amended by the addition of Section 204(l) which allows
USCIS to approve an adjustment of status application for the derivative spouse or child of a deceased
qualifying relative, including a derivative spouse or child of a deceased principal asylee. Therefore, an
applicant that meets all the requirements of this new law will remain a derivative spouse or child of
an asylee for purposes of adjustment of status even after the principal asylee’ s death.
This applies to an adjustment of status application adjudicated on or after October 28, 2009, even if
the qualifying relative died before October 28, 2009. If a petition or application was denied on or after
October 28, 2009, without considering the ef fect of this section, and the section could have permitted8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1813/2618