The minimum requirement for professional nursing occupations is generally less than a bachelor ’s
degree and these occupations are therefore considered under the skilled worker classification.[52]
However , the minimum requirement for certain advanced or specialized professional nursing
occupations may be a bachelor ’s degree.
These occupations may be properly considered under the professional classification. In some cases,
the minimum requirements may even be an advanced degree. Those occupations may be properly
considered under the advanced degree classification. Of ficers may refer to The Occupational
Information Network ( O*NET )[53] to determine the minimum educational requirements for professional
nursing occupations.
According to O*NET , most physical therapist occupations require graduate school. O*NET  classifies
the position as a “Job Zone Five” with “extensive preparation needed.” Based on the state where the
beneficiary will practice, these occupations may require a master ’s degree, and some may even
require a Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT). Therefore, physical therapist occupations may be
properly considered under the advanced degree professional classification if the employer can show
that, based on the duties and education requirements on the ET A Form 9089, the position requires an
advanced degree.
EB-2 classification is appropriate even if the state of intended employment issues physical therapist
licenses to those persons who possess less than an advanced degree based on when the therapist
obtained the degree (sometimes referred to as “grandfathering”).
As explained below , some states will license a person who only possess a minimum of a bachelor ’s
degree (and not an advanced degree) as a physical therapist based on the date the person obtained
that degree.[54] As long as an employer can show that the position requires, at a minimum, an
advanced degree (including the regulatory equivalence of a bachelor of physical therapy followed by 5
years of progressive experience),[55] for a worker to satisfactorily perform the job duties, and the
physical therapist holds an advanced degree or its equivalent, then a petition may be properly
considered under the advanced degree professional classification.
It is not unusual for an employer to require that the position’ s duties and requirements exceed the
state’ s minimum licensing requirements. For example, the employer may require that the beneficiary
possess an advanced degree even though the state only requires a bachelor ’s degree to obtain
licensure as a physical therapist. In this case, a petition may be properly considered under the
advanced degree professional classification.
It is possible that the employer does not require that the position’ s duties and requirements exceed the
state’ s minimum licensing requirements. For example, the employer may only require that the
beneficiary possess a bachelor ’s degree since the state only requires a bachelor ’s degree to obtain
licensure as a physical therapist. Since the minimum requirements are less than an advanced degree,
a petition may be properly considered under the professional classification (and not under the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1130/2618