Documentary evidence includes all types of documents, records, and writings and is subject to the
same considerations regarding competency and credibility as is testimonial evidence discussed below .
Documentary evidence may be divided into two categories: public documents and private documents.
Public Documents 
Public documents are the of ficial records of legislative, judicial, and administrative bodies. A requestor
may submit public documents as evidence to demonstrate eligibility for the benefit sought. For
example, a government-issued birth certificate is a public document.
Birth or baptismal records maintained by of ficials in religious or faith-based organizations are not
considered public documents but may be accepted as secondary evidence of birth if the actual place
of birth is indicated on the certificate.
Private Documents
Private documents include all documents other than the of ficial records of legislative, judicial, or
administrative bodies of government. Requestors often submit private documents as supporting
evidence for benefit requests. Private documents can include, but are not limited to, business or tax
records, bank statements, af fidavits, education credentials, or photographs.
2. Testimonial Evidence
Officers frequently take testimony to determine eligibility for immigration benefits.[25] An of ficer should
only take testimony from a person who is mentally competent at the time set to testify . An of ficer
should not attempt to take testimony from any person who might lack the mental capacity , such as:
A person who has been found mentally incompetent by an appropriate authority;
A person who is under the influence of drugs or alcohol; or
A person the of ficer suspects is mentally incompetent. In those cases, the of ficer must clearly
document their reason(s) for reaching that conclusion.
In any situation where the witness’  competency is in doubt, of ficers should supplement the record with
the testimony of another witness, with other evidence relating to the same matter or reschedule the
interview , per local procedures.
When interviewing minors, of ficers should consider the child’ s age, stage of language development,
and emotional maturity when eliciting testimony . Such interviews must be conducted with sensitivity
and may warrant special considerations, including determining whether a trusted adult may be
present.
Credibility of T estimony8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 274/2618