benefit adjudicated on or after January 4, 2010, even if the applicant filed the immigration benefit
application before January 4, 2010. 
The of ficer should disregard a diagnosis of HIV infection when determining whether an applicant is
inadmissible on health-related grounds. The of ficer should administratively close any HIV waiver
application filed before January 4, 2010. 
B. Parts of Form I-693 Addressing Communicable Diseases
The civil surgeon must complete “Findings” boxes for all categories of communicable diseases of
public health significance. The civil surgeon may add explanatory remarks; however , the of ficer should
not issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) simply because there are no remarks.
1. Tuberculosis
An initial tuberculosis (TB) screening test for showing an immune response to Mycobacterium
tuberculosis[7] antigens is required for all applicants 2 years of age or older .[8] According to the
Tuberculosis Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons , applicants under 2 years of age are required to
undergo an initial screening test only if the child has signs or symptoms suggestive of TB or has
known human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
The “testing age” is the applicant’ s age on the date the civil surgeon completed the medical
examination by signing the form, not the age at the time of the adjudication. An of ficer should not send
a RFE for testing if the applicant was properly exempt from the testing requirement due to age at the
time of the medical examination. The of ficer, however , may always require testing if evidence indicates
the applicant may have been exposed to TB since the examination.
Initial Screening T est Results
The initial screening test results must be recorded. If the initial screening test was not administered,
the exceptions should be clearly annotated in the remarks portion after the “not administered” box in
the testing section. The of ficer should be aware that anyone who previously received
the Bacille Calmette-Guérin vaccine[9] must still undergo an initial TB screening test. These applicants
are not exempt from the initial screening test. 
The civil surgeon must also annotate the “Initial Screening Test Result and Chest X-Ray
Determination” section. If the section indicates that the applicant is medically cleared relating to TB,
then no further TB tests are required. In this case, the X-ray section should be left blank.
Positive Screening Results
If the initial screening test is positive, or if the applicant has signs or symptoms of TB or has known
HIV infection, a chest X-ray must be performed. Applicants who have chest x-ray findings suggestive
of TB, signs or symptoms of TB, or known HIV infection must be referred to the health department of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1910/2618