The relevant jurisdiction must recognize the gestational parent-child relationship as the legal parental
relationship. Whether a parent is recognized as the legal parent is generally assessed under the
jurisdiction of the child’ s birth at the time of birth. In some jurisdictions, the non-genetic gestational
parent is recognized as the legal parent without having to take any additional af firmative steps after
birth. In other jurisdictions, a non-genetic gestational mother may be required to take certain action
after the child’ s birth to establish the legal relationship.
Post-birth formalization of the legal relationship between a non-genetic gestational parent and the
child should be viewed as relating back to the time of birth. This is because the relevant jurisdiction’ s
recognition of the legal relationship between a non-genetic gestational parent and the child is based
on the circumstances of the child’ s conception and birth, including that the gestational parent carried
and bore the child and the gestational parent is recognized as that child’ s legal parent. This rule
applies unless it is otherwise specified in the law of the relevant jurisdiction, such as in an applicable
court order .
The law of the relevant jurisdiction governs whether the non-genetic gestational parent is the legal
parent for purposes of U.S. immigration law . Importantly , a non-genetic gestational parent who is not
the legally recognized parent may not transmit U.S. citizenship to the child. USCIS follows any
applicable court judgment of the relevant jurisdiction if parentage is disputed. In addition, USCIS does
not adjudicate cases involving children whose legal parentage remains in dispute unless there has
been a final determination by a proper authority . Therefore, USCIS may deny a case in which the legal
parentage is in dispute, and the applicant may then file a motion to reopen[30] upon resolution by the
proper authority .
E. Definitions of U.S. Residence and Physical Presence
The term residence is defined in the INA  as the person's "principal actual dwelling place in fact,
without regard to intent."[31] A person is not required to live in a particular place for a specific period of
time in order for that place to be considered their “residence.” However , the longer a person stays in a
particular place, the more likely it is that they will establish that place as their residence.
By contrast, physical presence refers to the actual time a person is in the United States, regardless of
whether that person has or had a residence in the United States.[32] U.S. citizen parents may count
any time spent in the United States or its outlying possessions before the child’ s birth to meet the
physical presence requirement, regardless of their citizenship status at the time they were present in
the United States.[33] Even if the citizen parent was physically present in the United States without a
lawful status or in any immigration status before the birth of the child, USCIS recognizes that period for
purposes of the physical presence requirement.
 Although some provisions related to naturalization and citizenship require specific time periods of
physical presence, residence, or both,[34] in contrast, there is no specific time period of residence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2462/2618