instructions on cases that involve Terrorist Related Inadmissibility Ground (TRIG) issues for disposition
of the case or see their supervisor for questions on material support to terrorism. 
Unless sent specifically to a field of fice for resolution of a TRIG issue, an of ficer should return any
refugee adjustment case with unresolved TRIG issues to the Nebraska Service Center for resolution. 
D. W aivers[3]
All grounds of inadmissibility listed at Section B, Applicable Inadmissibility Grounds[4] are subject to
waiver , if the applicant can establish he or she qualifies for a waiver . An of ficer may have waived
a refugee adjustment applicant’ s ground of inadmissibility for humanitarian purposes, to assure family
unity, or when it is otherwise in the public interest. This is a more generous waiver provision than what
is used for general adjustments, which typically require an applicant to prove extreme hardship. 
In adjudicating a discretionary waiver application for refugee adjustment, an of ficer must balance the
humanitarian, family unity , or public interest considerations with the seriousness of the of fense that
rendered the applicant inadmissible. In making this determination, an of ficer should recognize that the
applicant has already established either past persecution or a well-founded fear of future persecution,
which is an extremely strong positive discretionary factor . Therefore, unless there are even stronger
negative factors that outweigh the positive ones, the waiver application should generally be approved.
Often, waiver applications for refugees are handled overseas before the applicant is approved
for the refugee classification. However , if a ground of inadmissibility arose after
the applicant’ s approval for the refugee classification, or if it was not known to the of ficer who
approved the refugee classification, the applicant may seek a waiver . The of ficer should adjudicate the
waiver as a part of the refugee adjustment process. The applicant generally seeks a waiver through
the filing of an Application by Refugee for W aiver of Grounds of Excludability ( Form I-602 ).
When an of ficer determines that an applicant is inadmissible and a waiver is available, an of ficer may
grant the waiver without requiring submission of a Form I-602 , if:
The applicant is inadmissible under a ground of inadmissibility that may be waived (other than
health related grounds);[5]
 USCIS records and other information available to an of ficer contain suf ficient information to
assess eligibility for a waiver; 
There is no evidence to suggest that negative factors would adversely impact the exercise of
discretion; and
It is appropriate to grant a waiver .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1798/2618