The L-1B classification is reserved for certain aliens having specialized knowledge and, in the case of
aliens seeking L-1B classification under an approved blanket petition specialized knowledge
professionals.[1]
A. Specialized Knowledge Capacity
To establish eligibility for approval, the L-1B petitioner must show that:
The beneficiary possesses specialized knowledge;
The position of fered involves the specialized knowledge held by the beneficiary; and
The beneficiary has at least 1 continuous year of employment abroad in a managerial, executive,
or specialized knowledge capacity with the petitioning employer or any qualifying organization
(collectively referred to as the petitioning organization) within the preceding 3 years. If the
beneficiary will be located primarily at the workplace of an unaf filiated company , the petitioner
also must establish that the beneficiary is eligible for L-1B classification under the requirements
of the V isa Reform Act.[2]
B. Application of Specialized Knowledge
1. Special or Advanced Knowledge
A beneficiary may establish specialized knowledge by possessing either special or advanced
knowledge, or both. Determining whether a beneficiary has special knowledge requires review of the
beneficiary’ s knowledge of how the petitioning organization manufactures, produces, or develops its
products, services, research, equipment, techniques, management, or other interests (or in brief, its
products or services).
Determinations concerning advanced knowledge, on the other hand, require review of the
beneficiary’ s knowledge of the specific petitioning organization’ s processes and procedures. With
respect to either special or advanced knowledge, the petitioner ordinarily must demonstrate that the
beneficiary’ s knowledge is not commonly held throughout the industry . As discussed in detail below ,
however , a beneficiary’ s knowledge need not be proprietary in nature, unique, or narrowly held within
the petitioning organization to be considered specialized.
Determining whether knowledge is special or advanced inherently requires a comparison of the
beneficiary’ s knowledge against that of others. The petitioner bears the burden of establishing such a
favorable comparison. Because special knowledge concerns knowledge of the petitioning
organization’ s products or services and its application in international markets, the petitioner may meet
its burden through evidence that the beneficiary has knowledge that is distinct or uncommon in
comparison to the knowledge of other similarly employed workers in the particular industry .
Alternatively , because advanced knowledge concerns knowledge of a petitioning organization’ s
processes and procedures that is not commonly found in the relevant industry , the petitioner may meet8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 478/2618