Therefore, it follows that any candidate for such a position must, at the time of the permanent job of fer,
either possess a permanent license to practice medicine or be eligible for such a license in the state of
the intended employment in order to be qualified for entry into the position. In the case of a physician
petition supported by a permanent labor certification, the job of fer is considered to have been made as
of the date of the filing of the permanent labor certification.
License to Practice Medicine[3]
Each U.S. state has a medical board that devises its own educational, training, and experience
requirements that physicians must meet in order to be granted a permanent license, more specifically ,
a full and unrestricted license, to practice medicine in that state. A full and unrestricted license to
practice dif fers from a limited license to practice medicine. Limited licensure is typically granted to
physicians who are still working towards obtaining the credentials required for full licensure or who
may be providing limited medical care, such as a physician who is working at a summer camp as a
camp physician for a short period of time.
In general, there are two pathways to obtain permanent licensure to practice medicine as a physician:
either as an initial applicant for licensure, or as an applicant for licensure by endorsement.
The initial applicant pathway is for medical school graduates who have never obtained a permanent
license to practice medicine as a physician in the United States, or in some instances, Canada. An
initial applicant must show that he or she has any requisite medical degree, post-graduate training,
residency , and board certifications, and has passed the medical examinations required by the state
medical board.
All U.S. states require licensing candidates to make an application for licensure with their medical
board to demonstrate that they meet the requirements of licensure regardless of previous licensure.[4]
This pathway is often referred to as an endorsement application and involves:
A verification of the standing of the applicant’ s license(s) issued by another U.S. state or territory ,
and in some cases by a foreign country; and
A review of the applicant’ s education, training, and medical examinations to determine if the
applicant meets the requirements of the state medical board.
U.S. states do not generally allow a physician to practice medicine within their jurisdictional
boundaries based on a license issued by another state or territory (referred to as automatic
reciprocity). Certain exceptions may exist for physicians practicing at federal medical facilities and in
other very limited circumstances.
In some states, applicants must pass medical examinations, such as the U.S. Medical Licensing
Examination (USMLE), within a certain number of attempts or within a certain timeframe in order for
the examination results to be considered valid for licensure. In addition, approximately 75 percent of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1224/2618