USCIS does not review fee waiver requests submitted for benefit requests that USCIS rejected for
reasons unrelated to the fee. For example, USCIS does not review fee waiver requests if an
application is defective due to a missing signature.
3. Burden of Proof and Standard of Proof
The burden of proof is on the requestor to establish an inability to pay the required fee by a
preponderance of the evidence by establishing at least one of the criteria for eligibility .[4] The
requestor satisfies the standard of proof if they submit relevant, probative, and credible evidence that
leads the USCIS of ficer to conclude that it is “probably true” or “more likely than not” that the requestor
is unable to pay the required fee.[5]
B. Forms Eligible for Fee W aiver
If not otherwise exempt from paying the fee, a benefit requestor may submit a request for a fee waiver
for certain eligible forms.[6] There are three general categories of fee waivers allowed for eligible
forms:
General fee waivers; 
Conditional fee waivers; and
Humanitarian fee waivers.
General fee waivers are available for eligible forms for requestors who demonstrate an inability to pay .
Conditional fee waivers are available for eligible forms for requestors who demonstrate an inability to
pay and meet certain conditions. Humanitarian fee waivers are available for eligible forms for
requestors for humanitarian purposes as authorized by statute.
1. General Fee W aivers
The following table provides a list of forms for which USCIS may waive the fees based on a
requestor ’s inability to pay .
Forms Eligible f or Gener al Fee W aivers
Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card ( Form I-90 )
Application for Relief Under Former Section 212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(INA) ( Form I-191 )[7]
Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence ( Form I-751 )
Application for Family Unity Benefits ( Form I-817 )
Application for Temporary Protected Status ( Form I-821 )[8]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 223/2618