foreign language;
Proof, issued by the U.S. armed forces or the COM, of working as a translator or interpreter for
at least 12 months;
Proof of background check and screening by the U.S. armed forces or the COM;
A letter of recommendation from the COM, or a general or flag of ficer in the chain of command of
the U.S. armed forces unit supported by the translator or interpreter; and
If the petition is filed by a petitioner in the United States, a copy of the front and back of the
petitioner ’s Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94).
F. Derivative Beneficiaries
The spouse and unmarried child(ren) younger than 21 years old accompanying or following to join a
principal immigrant may be accorded the same special immigrant classification as the principal
immigrant. V isas issued to derivative spouses and children do not count toward the numerical
limitations on special immigrant visas for principal immigrants.
Deceased Principal Alien (No Pending or Approved Form I-360)
Family members of the principal immigrant may still be eligible for special immigrant classification
even if the principal immigrant dies.
A surviving spouse and children may be eligible for special immigrant classification[9] if the deceased
principal alien had met the employment requirements as of the date of the principal alien's death.
The surviving spouse or children must submit Form I-360  establishing that the deceased principal
alien met the special immigrant eligibility requirements.[10]
When submitting the Form I-360 , a surviving spouse or child must submit evidence of the qualifying
relationship with the deceased principal alien and that such relationship existed at the time of the
principal alien’ s death.
Deceased Principal Alien (Pending or Approved Form I-360)
Where the principal alien had a pending or an approved Form I-360  petition, the eligibility of the
surviving spouse and children is also af fected by INA 204(l) ,[11] since the surviving spouse and
children are derivative beneficiaries of an employment-based immigrant visa petition.[12] In light of the
interrelationship between Section 1059 of NDAA  2006 and INA  204(l):
USCIS may approve a pending visa petition under Section 1059 of NDAA  2006 despite the
death of the principal alien while the petition is pending; or
After the death of the principal alien, USCIS may favorably exercise discretion to reinstate the
approval of a visa petition under Section 1059 of NDAA  2006.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1357/2618