the United States that they performed abroad.[5] In addition, the work abroad may have been in more
than one capacity .
A. Determining Managerial or Executive Job Duties
To determine managerial or executive capacity , officers must look first to the petitioner ’s description of
the job duties to determine that the duties are primarily of an executive or a managerial nature. This
standard ensures that a beneficiary not only has the requisite authority , but that a majority of their
duties relate to operational or policy management, not to the supervision of nonprofessional
employees, performance of the duties of another type of position, or other involvement in the
operational activities of the company .
This does not mean that the executive or manager cannot apply their technical or professional
expertise to a particular problem. Certain positions necessarily require a manager to apply their
technical or professional expertise on an incidental basis from time to time, and that is permissible.
That said, the regulations specifically require that the beneficiary be engaged primarily in a managerial
or executive capacity . Accordingly , officers should focus on the primary duties of the beneficiary in
determining whether the beneficiary qualifies as a manager or executive.
To determine whether a beneficiary’ s job duties will be primarily managerial or executive, an of ficer
must consider the totality of the evidence in the record and weigh all relevant factors. Such factors
may include:
The nature and scope of the petitioner ’s business;
The petitioner ’s organizational structure, staf fing levels, and the beneficiary’ s position within the
petitioner ’s organization;
The scope of the beneficiary’ s authority;
The work performed by other staf f within the petitioner ’s organization, including whether those
employees relieve the beneficiary from performing operational and administrative duties; and
Any other factors that contribute to understanding a beneficiary’ s actual duties and role in the
business.[6]
B. Determining Whether Job Duties are Primarily Managerial or Executive
USCIS does not consider a beneficiary to be acting in a managerial or executive capacity (as
previously defined) merely based on the number of employees that they:
Supervise or have supervised; or
Direct or have directed.
If staf fing levels are used as a factor in determining whether a beneficiary is acting in a managerial or
executive capacity , officers should consider the reasonable needs of the:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 476/2618