States, mortgage, and school-age children) are necessary for a case-by-case finding of compelling
circumstances based on substantial harm to the applicant.
C. Validity
USCIS may grant initial employment authorization based on compelling circumstances for up to 1
year.[8]
D. Spouse and Children
The spouse and children of a nonimmigrant who receives a compelling circumstances-based EAD are
also eligible to apply for a compelling circumstances-based EAD if the qualifying relationship exists
both at the time of filing and adjudication. The principal nonimmigrant’ s EAD must be valid for the
spouse and children to receive their own.
A spouse or child may file an application for a compelling circumstances-based EAD concurrently with
the principal nonimmigrant’ s application, but USCIS may not approve the spouse or child’ s application
before approving the principal nonimmigrant’ s application. Each dependent must establish eligibility
and satisfy all filing requirements. The validity period of a spouse or child’ s compelling circumstances-
based EAD may not exceed the principal nonimmigrant’ s approval period.[9]
A spouse or child who files an application for a compelling circumstances-based EAD must provide
biometrics and must not have been convicted of a felony or two or more misdemeanors.
E. Renewal Applications
EADs based on compelling circumstances may be renewed in 1-year increments. A renewal
application must be filed before the expiration of the previous EAD. Compelling circumstances-based
EADs are not eligible for automatic extensions.[10]
USCIS may approve a renewal application for a compelling circumstances-based EAD if the principal
applicant continues to have a Form I-140  approved on their behalf, and either:
Compelling circumstances exist, and an immigrant visa is still not available for issuance based
on the applicant’ s priority date according to the relevant Final Action Date in the DOS’ s Visa
Bulletin  in ef fect at the time the applicant files the renewal application. The compelling
circumstances at the time of the renewal application may be dif ferent from the initial compelling
circumstances shown; or
The dif ference between the applicant’ s priority date and the Final Action Date for the applicant’ s
preference category and country of chargeability is 1 year or less according to the DOS V isa
Bulletin in ef fect on the date the applicant filed the renewal application. In other words, under this
option, the applicant’ s priority date cannot be more than 1 year earlier or 1 year later than the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2224/2618