Decision
Upon determining eligibility for waiting list placement, USCIS issues a notice to petitioners with
information regarding eligibility for work authorization and deferred action. Employment authorization
based on deferred action is permitted under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(14)  to petitioners living in the United
States who have filed an Application for Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ).
Waitlisted petitioners remain on the waiting list until their petitions are adjudicated for U nonimmigrant
status in the order they were received. Grants of deferred action or parole to principal petitioners
placed on the waiting list, and their qualifying family members, are preserved until a final agency
decision is made on the petition, unless the individual grant of deferred action or parole is terminated
at USCIS’  discretion.[10]
Waitlisted petitioners do not accrue unlawful presence while on the waiting list.[11] Petitioners on the
waiting list and their qualifying family members, who are outside the United States, may generally
seek parole on a case-by-case basis through the processes available to other aliens.
Principal petitioners placed on the waiting list, and their qualifying family members, receive
employment authorization valid for a period of 4 years, similar to petitioners who receive a BFD EAD.
Principal petitioners who file an application for employment authorization under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(14)
must submit a fee or a Request for Fee W aiver ( Form I-912 ). Principal petitioners placed on the
waiting list and their qualifying family members may request renewals of employment authorization
and deferred action if they remain on the waiting list longer than 4 years.
Principal petitioners are granted employment authorization incident to a grant of U nonimmigrant
status. Consequently , USCIS converts applications for employment authorization under 8 CFR
274a.12(a)(19)  to 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(14)  for principal petitioners placed on the waiting list.
For applications for employment authorization under 8 CFR 274a.12(a)(20) or (c)(14) , qualifying family
members must submit a fee or a Form I-912 .[12]
USCIS issues an RFE or NOID to principal petitioners who are determined ineligible for waiting list
placement based on the file review . Petitioners have the opportunity to submit additional information to
address deficiencies or concerns identified in the RFE or the NOID. If, after reviewing the additional
evidence, the of ficer determines that the petitioner has not established eligibility for U nonimmigrant
status by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS issues a notice of denial of the petition for U
nonimmigrant status to the petitioner .
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 214.14(d)(2) .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 742/2618