Chapter 4 - Reserved
Chapter 5 - Reserved
Chapter 6 - Ef fect of Seeking Admission Following Accrual of Unlawful Presence
A. Inadmissibility Based on Seeking Admission within the Statutory 3 Years or 10
Years After Departure or Removal
An alien who accrued the requisite period of unlawful presence[1] is inadmissible under section 212(a)
(9)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) if the alien “again seeks admission” to the United
States within either the statutory 3-year or 10-year period after departure or removal (whichever
applies). However , an alien who “again seeks admission” after the end of the statutory 3-year or 10-
year period since the alien’ s departure or removal (whichever applies) is not inadmissible under INA
212(a)(9)(B)  based on the period of unlawful presence preceding the departure or removal.
In general, an alien who is inadmissible under INA 212(a)(9)(B)  can only be admitted to the United
States or obtain a grant of adjustment of status if the alien applies for , and is granted, a waiver of
inadmissibility .[2]
B. Effect of Returning to the United States During the Statutory 3-Y ear or 10-Y ear
Period After Departure or Removal
The statutory 3-year or 10-year period begins to run on the day of departure or removal (whichever
applies) after accrual of the period of unlawful presence. This statutory period continues to run, without
interruption, regardless of whether or how the alien returned to the United States during the 3-year or
10-year period. Thus, it is immaterial whether the alien has spent the applicable statutory 3-year or 10-
year period in or out of the United States. As long as the alien again seeks admission[3] more than 3
or 10 years after the relevant departure or removal,[4] the alien is not inadmissible under INA 212(a)(9)
(B) based on the period of unlawful presence preceding the departure or removal because the
statutory 3-year or 10-year period after that departure or removal has ended.
Note however , that the manner in which the alien returned to the United States during the statutory 3-
year or 10-year period may result in the accrual of a new period of unlawful presence or result in
inadmissibility under other grounds.
C. Relationship Between Multiple Unlawful Presence Grounds of Inadmissibility
There are three separate inadmissibility grounds involving the accrual of unlawful presence – the 3-
year unlawful presence ground,[5] the 10-year unlawful presence ground,[6] and the permanent8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2091/2618