Certain categories of nonimmigrants are authorized to engage in employment as an incident of status,
subject to any restrictions stated in the regulations.[15] As long as the adjustment applicant complies
with applicable terms and conditions of the nonimmigrant status, the applicant does not need
to obtain an EAD to continue authorized employment during the time specified while the adjustment
application is pending. These applicants, however , may apply for an EAD if they prefer . 
In all other cases, an adjustment applicant must file an Application for Employment Authorization
(Form I-765 ) concurrently with or subsequent to filing an Application to Register Permanent Residence
or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ) and await USCIS issuance of the EAD before engaging in employment.
[16] This includes refraining from employment after the applicant’ s work-authorized status
or previously approved EAD expires until USCIS issues the new EAD.
Finally , in all cases, if USCIS denies the adjustment application, any EAD granted based on that
adjustment application may be subject to termination.[17]
B. Periods of T ime to Consider and Effect of Departure
The INA 245(c)(2)  bar applies to unauthorized employment prior to filing the adjustment
application. The departure and subsequent reentry of an applicant who was employed without
authorization in the United States prior to filing an adjustment application does not erase the
this bar . Otherwise, an applicant who engaged in unauthorized employment could simply depart the
United States, reenter immediately , and become eligible to file for adjustment of status.[18]
The INA 245(c)(8)  bar applies to any time engaged in unauthorized employment while physically
present in the United States regardless of whether it occurred before or after submission of the
adjustment application. USCIS places no time restrictions on when unauthorized employment must
have occurred, because the INA  does not state that the unauthorized employment must have occurred
during any particular period of time.[19]
An of ficer, therefore, should review an applicant’ s entire employment history in the United States to
determine whether the applicant has engaged in unauthorized employment. In addition to an
applicant’ s most recent entry and admission, an of ficer should examine all of the applicant’ s previous
entries and admissions into the United States. An of ficer should disregard how much time has passed
since each entry and whether the applicant subsequently left the United States and returned lawfully .
C. Evidence to Consider
An of ficer may request, review , and consider the following documentation to determine whether the
applicant may be barred from adjustment based on unauthorized employment under INA 245(c)
(2) or INA 245(c)(8) :
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94); 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1582/2618