with the child under the Convention country’ s laws.[14]
If an of ficer determines that the child has a stepparent, the of ficer should request additional evidence
from the prospective adoptive parent (P AP), including:
A copy (with a certified English translation, if applicable) of the relevant statutes, regulations,
court judgments, or other legal authority from the country of origin addressing whether a
stepparent has a legal parent-child relationship to the stepchild; and
A statement from the stepparent (with a certified English translation, if applicable) indicating that
the stepparent has neither adopted the stepchild nor obtained any other form of legal custody of
the stepchild and does not intend to do so. 
USCIS considers a stepparent to be a parent for purposes of adjudication of a petition if:
The stepparent adopted the stepchild as specified in U.S. immigration law;[15]
Under the Convention country’ s laws, the marriage between the parent and stepparent creates a
legal parent-child relationship between the stepparent and stepchild; or 
The stepparent has obtained legal custody of the stepchild establishing a legal relationship to the
stepchild. 
In some jurisdictions, a stepparent does not have a legal parent-child relationship to a stepchild and
would, therefore, not have any legal standing to perform any action terminating parental rights and
duties.
USCIS does not consider a stepparent to be a child's parent for purposes of a petition if the P AP
establishes that the stepparent has no legal parent-child relationship to the stepchild under the
Convention country’ s laws. The burden of establishing this rests with the P AP. The P AP cannot simply
assert without evidence that the stepparent has no legal parental rights to the child.
If the of ficer determines the stepparent is a legal parent, the P AP must establish the child still meets
the Convention adoptee definition in light of the stepparent and that the stepparent has consented to
the adoption, in the same manner that would apply to any other legal parent.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 204.301  for the definition of a Convention adoptee. For information on habitual
residence determinations, see Part A, Adoptions Overview , Chapter 2, Adoption Processes [ 5 USCIS-
PM A.2]. See 8 CFR 204.303 .
[^ 2] The Central Authority of the child’ s country of origin will af firm the child’ s eligibility and availability
for intercountry adoption in accordance with the country of origin’ s laws when referring the child to the
PAP and sending an Article 16 report. An Article 16 report is an of ficial report on the child. For more8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 985/2618