A parent may sign a benefit request on behalf of a child who is under 14 years of age.[12] Children 14
years of age or older must sign on their own behalf. If a parent signs on behalf of a child, the parent
must submit a birth certificate or adoption decree to establish the parent-child relationship.
A legal guardian[13] may also sign a benefit request on behalf of a child who is under 14 years of age,
as well as for a mentally incompetent person of any age.[14]
By signing the benefit request, the parent or guardian certifies under penalty of perjury that the benefit
request, and all evidence submitted with it, either at or after the time of filing, is true and correct.
Legal Guardian
A legal guardian is a person who a proper court or public authority has designated as the benefit
requestor ’s legal guardian or surrogate and who is authorized to exercise legal authority over the
requestor ’s affairs. Legal guardian does not include persons who were not appointed by the proper
court or public authority , even if they have a legitimate interest in the legal af fairs of the child or
incapacitated adult, are acting in loco parentis, or are a family member .[15]
USCIS requires documentation to establish the legal guardian’ s authority to sign a benefit request on
behalf of the child or mentally incompetent requestor . Acceptable documentation includes, but is not
limited to, of ficial letters of guardianship or other orders issued by a court or government agency
legally authorized to make such appointment under the law governing the place where the child or
incapacitated requestor resides.
Designated Representative
For purposes of naturalization, a designated representative may also sign for the applicant who is
unable to understand or communicate an understanding of the Oath of Allegiance because of a
physical or developmental disability or mental impairment.[16]
Durable Power of Attorney Requirements
 USCIS accepts a durable POA  or similar legally binding document only in the case of an incapacitated
adult. A formal court appointment is not necessary if a person signs on behalf of an incapacitated adult
under the authority of a POA.
A POA  is a written authorization to act on another ’s behalf in private or business af fairs or other legal
matters. A durable POA  is a contract signed while a person is still competent that assigns power of
attorney in the event that the person becomes incapacitated at some point in the future.[17]
In most cases, the language of the durable POA  specifies steps that need to be taken in order for the
durable POA  to take ef fect. To assess whether a durable POA  is valid and in ef fect, USCIS generally
requires, at minimum, a copy of the durable POA, as well as evidence showing that the steps required8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 213/2618