The organization is exempt from federal tax requirements as described in Section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) of 1986;[3] and
The organization has a currently valid determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) confirming such exemption.[4]
In some cases, the petitioning entity may fall within the umbrella of a parent organization that has
received a group tax exemption from the IRS. In these group tax-exempt cases, the petitioner may use
the parent organization’ s IRS determination letter , provided it submits that letter and presents
evidence that it is covered under the group exemption granted to the parent organization and it is
authorized by the parent organization to use its group tax exemption.
Examples on what may be submitted to show that a petitioner may use a group tax exemption letter
from a parent organization include, but are not limited to:
A letter from the organization holding a group exemption as evidence that the petitioner is
covered by such exemption; the letter from the organization named in the exemption must
specifically acknowledge that the petitioner falls under the group exemption;
Copies of pages from a directory for the parent organization showing the petitioner as a member
of the group;[5]
The parent organization’ s website that lists the petitioner as a member of the group covered by
the exemption; and
An IRS letter confirming the petitioner ’s coverage under the parent organization exemption.
While the IRS does not require religious organizations to obtain a determination letter , USCIS
regulations require petitioners to submit a determination letter with the R-1 petition. USCIS reviews the
information contained within the letter to determine if the IRS classified the organization as a religious
organization, or as other than a religious organization. Determination letters from the IRS do not
expire, but the IRS can revoke them. The IRS of fers a web-based Tax Exempt Organization Search
tool to verify an organization’ s tax-exempt status. An organization may use this tool for its own
purposes to obtain a printout showing its currently valid tax-exemption. However , such a printout does
not satisfy the requirement for submission of an IRS determination letter .
Bona Fide Organization Affiliated with Religious Denomination[6]
A petitioner qualifies as a bona fide organization that is af filiated with a religious denomination if:
The organization is closely associated with the religious denomination;
The organization is exempt from federal tax requirements as described in IRC 501(c)(3); and
The organization has a currently valid determination letter from the IRS confirming such
exemption.[7]
B. Petitioner Attestations[8]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 598/2618