A CPR child may request a waiver of the joint filing requirement if the CPR spouse (the child’ s parent)
entered into a qualifying marriage in good faith, and the child was battered or subjected to extreme
cruelty by either the CPR spouse (the child’ s parent) or the petitioning spouse (the child’ s stepparent).
[33]
CPRs may request a battery or extreme cruelty waiver at any time after they are granted CPR status
and may file the waiver at any time before they are subject to a final order of removal. The CPR’ s
present marital status or living situation is also not relevant to the filing of the waiver . They may still be
married to their abusive spouse, or CPR children may still be living with their abusive parent. The CPR
may be divorced or separated or still residing with the petitioning spouse.[34]
The phrase “battered by or was the subject of extreme cruelty” includes, but is not limited to:
Being the victim of any act or threatened act of violence, including any forceful detention, which
results or threatens to result in physical or mental injury;[35] and
Psychological or sexual abuse or exploitation, including rape, molestation, incest (if the victim is
a minor), or forced prostitution, which USCIS considers acts of violence.[36]
Evidence of battery or extreme cruelty may include, but is not limited to, reports and af fidavits from
police, judges, medical personnel, school of ficials, counselors, or the CPR. CPRs seeking a waiver
due to battery or extreme cruelty are not required to submit a recommendation from a mental health
professional.[37]
If a CPR child’ s parent filed a waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty , and the CPR parent dies,
the CPR child may continue to be eligible for the abuse waiver under INA 204(l) .[38]
2. Any Credible Evidence Provision for V AWA
Congress created the “any credible evidence” provision in recognition of the evidentiary challenges
faced by abused spouses and children. An abused CPR may not have access to necessary evidence
because the abusive spouse may control access to documents, or the abused CPR may have had to
flee the abusive situation without being able to take important documents.
In recognition of these evidentiary challenges, of ficers cannot deny a case because the CPR spouse
or child was unable to provide a particular piece of evidence or could not demonstrate the
unavailability of primary or secondary evidence. Of ficers must consider whatever evidence is
available, use agency records, and consider all evidence in the totality of the circumstances in the
case. Therefore, when adjudicating a waiver based on battery or extreme cruelty , officers consider any
credible evidence relevant to the waiver request submitted by the CPR.[39]
USCIS has sole discretion to determine what evidence is credible and to determine what weight to
give that evidence.[40] The determination of what evidence is credible must be made on a case-by-8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1389/2618