If the USCIS international of fice determines that the Form I-730  beneficiary is eligible for following-to-
join benefits, USCIS or DOS provides the beneficiary with travel documentation.
DOS Interviews
When the Form I-730  beneficiary resides in a location abroad where there is no USCIS presence or
jurisdiction, staf f from the DOS embassy or consulate contact the beneficiary to schedule their
interview . DOS processing of Form I-730 petitions is similar to USCIS processing of Form I-730
petitions.
However , DOS does not have the authority to adjudicate Form I-730  petitions, and instead conducts a
travel eligibility determination of the petition that USCIS previously approved. Generally , a travel
eligibility interview by DOS is similar to a USCIS interview; however , DOS of ficers refer to the Foreign
Affairs Manual (F AM) for agency procedures. If DOS determines that the Form I-730 beneficiary is
eligible for travel, DOS issues travel documentation to the beneficiary .
D. USCIS Approval
For FTJ-R beneficiaries, if the Form I-730  petitioner files timely and meets all eligibility requirements,
and the beneficiary meets all eligibility requirements and admissibility requirements, the USCIS of ficer
approves the petition.[13]
For FTJ-A  beneficiaries, if the Form I-730  petitioner files timely and meets all eligibility requirements,
and the beneficiary meets all eligibility requirements and admissibility requirements, the USCIS of ficer
may approve the petition as a matter of discretion.[14]
The location of a beneficiary of a Form I-730  determines when USCIS approves a Form I-730 petition.
For a beneficiary in a location with a USCIS domestic or international field of fice jurisdiction, the
USCIS domestic or international field of fice adjudicates the Form I-730  petition.
For a beneficiary abroad in a location without a USCIS presence or jurisdiction, if the petitioner
and beneficiary appear eligible and the petitioner establishes the qualifying relationship during
initial domestic processing of the Form I-730  petition, USCIS approves the Form I-730 petition
and forwards it to the NVC. The NVC then transfers the Form I-730 petition to the appropriate
DOS embassy or consulate to interview the beneficiary and verify travel eligibility .
1. Travel Document Issuance
Approved Form I-730  beneficiaries located abroad need a transportation letter or boarding foil from
USCIS or DOS to travel to the United States. These documents provide assurance to airline carriers
that they may transport the Form I-730 beneficiary to the United States without liability .[15]
Form I-730  beneficiaries who complete processing with USCIS international field of fices may receive
either a transportation letter or a boarding foil. Form I-730 beneficiaries who complete processing with8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 865/2618