adjustment applicant is eligible for and is granted a waiver of the ground of inadmissibility or another
form of relief, the applicant may remain eligible for adjustment.[23]
3. Other Eligibility Requirements
Government Officials and Specialty Workers
Foreign government of ficials, representatives to international organizations, treaty traders and treaty
investors (A, E, and G nonimmigrants) may have certain rights, privileges, immunities and exemptions
not granted to other nonimmigrants. If such a nonimmigrant seeks adjustment of status, he or she
must waive those rights, privileges, immunities and exemptions by filing a waiver application (Request
for W aiver of Certain Rights, Privileges, Exemptions and Immunities ( Form I-508 ).
An Australian specialty occupation worker (E-3 nonimmigrant) has no special rights, privileges,
immunities or exemptions to waive and therefore is not required to submit the waiver . Although these
workers can be classified as a treaty trader ,[24] the waiver requirement was established prior to the
creation of the Australian specialty occupation worker classification.
In addition, any applicant admitted in an A, G, or NA TO nonimmigrant status must file an Interagency
Record of Request – A, G or NA TO Dependent Employment Authorization or Change/Adjustment
to/from A, G or NA TO Status ( Form I-566 ) with the Department of State.
Forms I-508 and I-566 may be concurrently filed with the adjustment application.
Certain Exchange V isitors[25]
Certain exchange visitors (J-1 and J-2 nonimmigrants)[26] admitted to the United States are subject to
a 2-year foreign residence requirement.[27] These exchange visitors generally must reside and be
physically present in the country of their last residence or the country of their nationality for a
cumulative total period (in the aggregate) of at least 2 years after the end of their exchange program
and after leaving the United States before they can apply for permanent residence. If such exchange
visitors do not return to the country of their last residence or country of nationality for at least 2 years,
in the aggregate, after the end of their exchange program, they may be ineligible for adjustment of
status. However , certain exchange visitors may be eligible for a waiver of the requirement through an
Application for W aiver of the Foreign Residence Requirement ( Form I-612 ).[28]
Officers should first adjudicate the waiver request, as denial of the waiver necessarily renders the
applicant ineligible for adjustment of status. Of ficers should not hold adjustment cases while waiting
for either the applicant to submit a waiver application or the Department of State to make a
recommendation on a waiver application and instead should deny the adjustment application for
ineligibility based on the evidence of record.
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1437/2618