Applicants who are applying for adjustment of status based on having been physically present in the
United States for a continuous period of at least 3 years since the date of their lawful admission as a
T-1 nonimmigrant may not file an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form
I-485 ) until they have met the 3-year continuous physical presence requirement, but must file before
the expiration of their T nonimmigrant status.[1] USCIS rejects or denies any Form I-485 filed before
the principal T nonimmigrant accrues 3 years in T nonimmigrant status.
Applicants who are applying for adjustment of status based on having been physically present in the
United States for the duration of the investigation or prosecution of the acts of traf ficking (if the
duration is less than 3 years), may file Form I-485 any time after the Attorney General has determined
that the investigation or prosecution is complete.
A derivative T nonimmigrant may not apply for adjustment of status before the principal T-1
nonimmigrant applicant has applied for adjustment of status. A derivative may only file concurrently
with or after the principal has applied for adjustment of status.[2] For ease of processing, derivative T
nonimmigrants are encouraged, but not required, to file for adjustment of status concurrently with the
principal T-1 nonimmigrant.
B. Extension of Nonimmigrant Status
Upon receipt of a properly filed[3] Form I-485 , USCIS issues a receipt notice (Notice of Action, Form I-
797) that includes a notice of extension of the applicant’ s T nonimmigrant status.
If USCIS rejects the application because it was not properly filed in accordance with the form
instructions, USCIS sends the applicant a rejection notice, and the applicant’ s status is not extended.
USCIS does not send the applicant a receipt notice.
If the T nonimmigrant properly files the adjustment of status application while still in valid T
nonimmigrant status, there is no need to file the Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status
(Form I-539 ). If a T nonimmigrant does not file an adjustment of status application before their T
nonimmigrant status expires, they must file the Form I-539 in order to extend their status.
C. Employment Authorization
Principal T-1 nonimmigrants who timely file a Form I-485  before their T-1 nonimmigrant status expires
are authorized to work incident to status[4] while their Form I-485 is pending.
USCIS issues a receipt notice (Form I-797) to applicants who properly file Form I-485, which includes
notice of an extension of the applicant’ s T nonimmigrant status. The Form I-797, Notice of Action,
combined with the applicant’ s Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94) reflecting the grant of T-1
nonimmigrant status, is acceptable evidence of employment authorization for purposes of Employment
Eligibility V erification ( Form I-9 ).[5]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1778/2618