The flu vaccination is only available during the flu season. For purposes of Form I-693 , the flu season
commences annually on October 1 and runs through March 31.
Over time, CDC has changed the age category of applicants required to obtain the flu vaccine for
immigration purposes. As of November 16, 2010, CDC’ s Technical Instructions require that all
applicants 6 months of age or older receive the flu vaccine during the flu season.
If an applicant was required to obtain the flu vaccine at the time of the medical examination (the date
of the civil surgeon’ s certification governs) but a flu vaccine annotation is missing, the of ficer should
only issue an RFE if it is still the same flu season and if it is reasonable to expect that the applicant will
be able to obtain the flu vaccine within the time frame of the RFE.
This accounts for the fact that the flu vaccine is strain-specific and only available for a limited time
each year . The of ficer should not issue an RFE if the applicant will not be able to obtain the strain-
specific flu vaccine that had been required at the time of the medical examination because:
It is no longer the same flu season; or
It is not the flu season at all.
5. Vaccination Requirements Prior to August 1, 2008
The following vaccines were NOT  required prior to August 1, 2008: Hepatitis A, meningococcal,
rotavirus, human papillomavirus (HPV), and zoster .[16]
F. Completion of the Results Section by the Civil Surgeon
According to the V accination Component of the Technical Instructions, the civil surgeon should mark
the appropriate results box at the bottom of the vaccination assessment chart. The Technical
Instructions direct the civil surgeon to only check one appropriate box.
The of ficer should be aware that civil surgeons may improperly mark the boxes because they may
misunderstand the meaning of these boxes. Therefore, the of ficer should determine, from the
vaccination assessment completed by the civil surgeon, whether the applicant received all vaccines,
which blanket waivers should be granted, and whether the applicant requires any other waivers. The
officer should exercise discretion in reviewing the vaccination chart and when evaluating the results
boxes at the bottom of the vaccination assessment chart.
If the civil surgeon did not check any result boxes, the of ficer should only return the form for corrective
action if he or she is unable to ascertain whether the applicant is admissible. The of ficer should never
alter or complete sections on the medical examination report that are the responsibility of the civil
surgeon, such as the results boxes.
The results boxes and their meanings are described below (according to the V accination Component
of the Technical Instructions).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1924/2618