Chapter 4 - Commuter Cards
Under normal circumstances, a lawful permanent resident (LPR) is considered to have abandoned his
or her status if he or she moves to another country with the intent to reside there permanently .
However , in certain situations, an LPR may commence or continue to reside in a foreign contiguous
territory and commute to the United States for employment.[1] This administrative grant of “commuter
status” is only available to LPRs living in Canada or Mexico.
The two types of commuters are as follows:
Those who commute for regular employment in the United States; and
Those who enter to perform seasonal work in the United States, but whose presence in the
United States is for 6 months or less, in the aggregate, during any continuous 12-month period
(seasonal commuters or seasonal workers).
LPRs must use the Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card ( Form I-90 ) to take up commuter
status or when taking up actual residence in the United States after having been a commuter .[2]
Commuters receive a Permanent Resident Card (PRC) that indicates their status as a commuter .
Commuters must also use Form I-90 to replace their commuter PRCs.[3] 
A. Eligibility Requirements
1. Obtaining Commuter Status
To be eligible for commuter status, an applicant must meet the following requirements:
Establish LPR status;
Establish he or she lives in Canada or Mexico;[4] and
Establish employment in the United States within the 6 months before filing. 
Evidence of employment may include, but is not limited to:
Employment pay stubs showing employment in the United States; or
An employment letter on company letterhead showing current employment in the United States.
Applicants should refer to the Form I-90 instructions  for further information on evidentiary
requirements. Upon approval, USCIS issues the applicant a PRC indicating status as a commuter .[5]
2. Removing Commuter Status8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2250/2618