the basis of the revocation, and in some cases, on whether the spouse or child resides in the United
States at the time of the revocation.
For example, the citizenship of a spouse or child who became a U.S. citizen through the naturalization
of his or her parent or spouse is not lost if the revocation was based on illegal procurement of
naturalization. The spouse or child’ s citizenship may be lost, however , if the revocation was based on
other grounds (see below).
In cases where the spouse or child loses his or her citizenship, the spouse or child loses any right or
privilege of U.S. citizenship which he or she has, may have, or may acquire through the parent or
spouse’ s naturalization. The spouse or child returns to the status that he or she had before becoming
a U.S. citizen.[7]
2. Citizenship of Spouse or Child is Lost if Revocation for Concealment or Misrepresentation
The spouse or child of a person whose U.S. citizenship is revoked loses his or her U.S. citizenship at
the time of revocation in cases where:
The spouse or child became a U.S. citizen through the naturalization of his or her parent or
spouse whose citizenship has been revoked; and
The parent or spouse’ s citizenship was revoked on the ground that his or her naturalization was
procured by concealment of a material fact or by willful misrepresentation.[8]
This provision applies regardless of whether the spouse or child is residing in the United States or
abroad at the time of the revocation of naturalization.[9]
3. Citizenship of Spouse or Child Residing Abroad is Lost if Revocation on Certain Grounds
The spouse or child of a person whose U.S. citizenship is revoked may lose his or her U.S. citizenship
if the spouse or child is residing outside of the United States at the time of revocation.[10] This applies
if the revocation was based on becoming a member of certain organizations after naturalization or for
separating from the military under less than honorable conditions before serving honorably for five
years.
The spouse or child of a person whose U.S. citizenship is revoked under these sections may lose his
or her U.S. citizenship at the time of revocation in cases where:
The spouse or child became a United States citizen through the naturalization of his or her
parent or spouse whose citizenship has been revoked;
The spouse or child resided outside of the United States at the time of revocation; and
The parent or spouse’ s citizenship was revoked on the basis that:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2617/2618