Example: Standalone Investments Before March 15, 2022
Ten standalone immigrant investors seek to establish a hotel as their new commercial enterprise. The
establishment of the new hotel requires capital to pay financing costs to unrelated third parties,
purchase the land, develop the plans, obtain the licenses, build the structure, maintain the grounds,
staff the hotel, as well as many other types of expenses involved in the development and operation of
a new hotel.
The standalone immigrant investor ’s capital can be used to pay part or all of these expenses. Each
standalone immigrant investor ’s investment of capital helps the new commercial enterprise (the new
hotel) create 10 jobs. The 10 immigrants’  investments must result in the new hotel’ s creation of 100
jobs (10 jobs for each investor ’s capital investment) for qualifying employees.[107]
1. Bridge Financing
A developer or principal of a new commercial enterprise, either directly or through a separate job-
creating entity , may use interim, temporary , or bridge financing, in the form of either debt or equity ,
prior to receipt of immigrant investor capital. If the project starts based on the interim or bridge
financing prior to receiving immigrant investor capital and subsequently replaces that financing with
immigrant investor capital, the new commercial enterprise may still receive credit for the job creation
under the regulations.
Generally , the replacement of temporary or bridge financing with immigrant investor capital should
have been contemplated prior to acquiring the original temporary financing. However , even if the
immigrant investor financing was not contemplated prior to acquiring the temporary financing, as long
as the financing to be replaced was contemplated as short-term temporary financing that would be
subsequently replaced by more permanent long-term financing, the infusion of immigrant investor
financing could still result in the creation of, and credit for , new jobs.
For example, if traditional financing originally contemplated to replace the temporary financing is no
longer available to the commercial enterprise, a developer is not precluded from using immigrant
investor capital as an alternative source. Immigrant investor capital may replace temporary financing
even if this arrangement was not contemplated prior to obtaining the bridge or temporary financing.
The full amount of the immigrant’ s investment must be made available to the business or businesses
most closely responsible for creating the jobs upon which eligibility is based. In the regional center
context if the new commercial enterprise is not the job-creating entity , then the full amount of the
capital must be invested first in the new commercial enterprise and then made available to the job-
creating entity or entities.[108]
2. Multiple Job-Creating Entities8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1261/2618