which does not leave the issue in doubt.[3] For criminal revocation of naturalization the burden of proof
is the same as for every other criminal case, proof beyond a reasonable doubt.
USCIS refers cases for civil revocation of naturalization when there is suf ficient evidence to establish
that the person is subject to one of the grounds of revocation.
The general grounds for civil revocation of naturalization are:
Illegal procurement of naturalization; or
Concealment of a material fact or willful misrepresentation.
Another ground for revocation of naturalization exists in cases where the person naturalized under the
military provisions. In those cases, the person may also be subject to revocation of naturalization if he
or she is discharged under other than honorable conditions before serving honorably for five years.
B. Background
On February 14, 2001, a district court issued a nationwide injunction based on a finding that USCIS
has no statutory authority to administratively revoke naturalization.[4] A person’ s naturalization can
only be revoked after a final order in a judicial proceeding to revoke his or her naturalization.[5] During
a revocation of naturalization proceeding, all related documentation from the A-file is subject to
discovery .
C. Difference between Revocation and Cancellation of Certificate
USCIS is authorized to cancel any Certificate of Citizenship or Certificate of Naturalization in cases
where USCIS considers that the certificate itself was obtained or created illegally or fraudulently .[6]
Cancellation of a certificate under this provision only cancels the certificate and does not af fect the
citizenship status of the person in whose name the certificate was issued. 
If someone was unlawfully naturalized or misrepresented or concealed facts during the naturalization
process, civil or criminal proceedings must be instituted to revoke the naturalization and the status of
the person as a citizen. Once the naturalization is revoked, the court also cancels the person’ s
Certificate of Naturalization. 
The main dif ference between cancellation and revocation proceedings is that cancellation only af fects
the document, not the person’ s underlying status. For this reason, cancellation is only ef fective against
persons who are not citizens, either because they have not complied with the entire naturalization
process or because they did not acquire citizenship under law , but who nonetheless have evidence of
citizenship which was fraudulently or illegally obtained. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2612/2618