To establish a qualifying relationship, a self-petitioning parent must be a biological parent, stepparent,
or adoptive parent of an abusive U.S. citizen son or daughter .[72] The requirements for self-petitioning
parents are similar to the requirements for self-petitioning children to demonstrate the required parent-
child relationship.
Biological Parent
Self-petitioning parents may demonstrate a qualifying relationship if they are the biological parent of
the abusive U.S. citizen son or daughter . If the self-petitioning parent utilized Assisted Reproductive
Technology , however , and does not have a genetic relationship to the U.S. citizen or LPR child, the
parent may still be able to demonstrate a qualifying parent-child relationship in certain circumstances.
[73] If the self-petitioning parent is the biological mother of the abusive U.S. citizen son or daughter ,
the primary evidence to demonstrate the qualifying relationship is the child’ s birth certificate issued by
civil authorities listing the mother ’s name.[74] If the mother's name on the birth certificate is dif ferent
from the name as reflected on the self-petition, the self-petitioner may submit evidence of the name
change.[75]
If primary evidence is unavailable, other examples of evidence of a biological relationship may include,
but are not limited to:
A court decree of paternity;
Custody or child support orders;
A baptismal certificate (or other religious document) with the seal of the religious authority
showing the date and place of birth and baptism (or similar religious ceremony) and the names
of the parents;
Early school records showing the date of admission to the school, the child’ s date and place of
birth, and the name(s) of the parent(s);
Medical records, such as the hospital birth record that names the parent(s) of the child;
Census record, such as a state or federal census record showing the name, place of birth, and
date of birth or age of each person listed; or
Any other credible evidence of the relationship.
If the self-petitioning parent is the biological father of the abusive U.S. citizen son or daughter , then the
parent must provide evidence demonstrating that the child was either:
Born in wedlock;
Legitimated, or was born out of wedlock but later placed in the same legal position as a child
born in wedlock; or
Born out of wedlock but has or had an ongoing bona fide relationship with the abused parent.[76]
For fathers whose abusive U.S. citizen sons or daughters were born in wedlock, self-petitioners must
submit evidence of their biological relationship to their child, the marriage between the parents of the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 761/2618