A matter of administrative grace where the applicant has the burden of showing that discretion
should be exercised in his or her favor .[32]
A consideration of negative factors and the need for the applicant to of fset such factors by
showing unusual or even outstanding equities.[33]
These characterizations imply that the exercise of discretion cannot be arbitrary , inconsistent, or
dependent on intangible or imagined circumstances.
In short, discretion is defined as the ability or power to exercise sound judgment in decision-making.
While the discretionary analysis gives the of ficer some autonomy in the way in which he or she
decides a particular case after all applicable eligibility requirements are established, that autonomy
may only be exercised within the confines of certain legal restrictions. These restrictions define the
scope of the of ficer’s discretionary authority .[34]
2. Adjudicative Discretion
There are two broad types of discretion that may be exercised in the context of immigration law:
prosecutorial (or enforcement) discretion[35] and adjudicative discretion. The scope of discretion is
defined by what type of discretionary decision is being made. This chapter only discusses the exercise
of adjudicative discretion.
Adjudicative discretion requires an of ficer to decide whether to exercise discretion favorably when
adjudicating a request for an immigration benefit. This decision is guided by the applicable statutes,
regulations, and policies that outline the eligibility requirements for the benefit and the facts present in
the case at issue. The U.S. Supreme Court has referred to adjudicative discretion as merit-deciding
discretion.[36]
In general, an of ficer may exercise favorable adjudicative discretion to approve a benefit request when
the requestor has met the applicable eligibility requirements and negative factors impacting discretion
are not present.[37] An exercise of discretion to grant a benefit may also be appropriate when the
requestor has met the eligibility requirements for the benefit, and the positive factors outweigh the
negative factors. An exercise of discretion to deny , rather than to grant, may likewise be appropriate
when the requestor has met the requirements of the request, but negative factors found in the course
of the adjudication outweigh the positive factors.
3. Who Exercises Discretion
Congress expressly granted discretion to the Secretary of Homeland Security in deciding when to
grant certain immigration benefits. For example, the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) states: “The
Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General, in the Secretary’ s or the Attorney General’ s
discretion and under such regulations as the Secretary or the Attorney General may prescribe, may8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 299/2618