The following are examples of situations that may raise credible doubts about the validity of Form N-
648, which should guide of ficers in determining the suf ficiency of the form:[26]
Lack of Examination or Proper Certification
The alien was not examined by the authorized medical professional.
The form was certified by someone other than the authorized medical professional.
The alien paid for Form N-648 without undergoing a proper medical examination or
receiving a diagnosis from an authorized medical professional.
Fraud or Misconduct by the Medical Professional
The certifying medical professional has been or is currently under investigation for
immigration fraud, healthcare fraud (such as Medicaid or Medicare fraud), or other
fraudulent activities by USCIS Fraud Detection and National Security (FDNS) Directorate,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or another federal, state, or local agency .
The medical professional has been disciplined by a state medical board for unethical or
fraudulent practices.
Contradictory Information in Alien’ s Existing Records
Previously submitted Forms N-648 in prior applications or existing medical records in the
A-file containing information that directly contradicts the diagnosis or claims made in the
submitted Form N-648.
Other of ficial documentation contained in the record that directly contradicts the diagnosis
or claims made in the submitted Form N-648.
The previous petitions and applications such as Form I-693, with medical records that
show no history or evidence of the medical condition now claimed in Form N-648.
Inconsistencies in the Alien’ s Interview
The alien’ s statements during the naturalization interview directly contradict the medical
condition or disability described in Form N-648.
Fraudulent Involvement of Interpreters
The interpreter used during the medical examination, the naturalization interview , or both,
is known or suspected by FDNS or another state or federal agency to be involved in any
immigration fraud, especially fraud related to Form N-648.
Multiple Inconsistent Forms N-648
The alien submits multiple Forms N-648 with conflicting diagnoses or inconsistent
information.
Other Articulable Grounds
Any other credible reasons supported by the record that call into question the validity of the
form.
Handling Suspected Fraud or Misrepresentation
If any one or more of the above indicators are present, and USCIS suspects or determines that an
alien, interpreter , or medical professional has committed fraud or made material misrepresentations in8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2380/2618