be finalized in the United States or recognized under state law , unlike in cases of children entering
with IH-3 visas on the basis of “full and final” adoptions.
Chapter 6 - Additional Requirements
In addition to meeting general eligibility requirements, the following requirements also must be met:
There is no child-buying, fraud, misrepresentation, or non-bona fide intent;
The child matches the characteristics that the prospective adoptive parent (P AP) has been
approved to adopt; and
The petitioner has identified a primary adoption service provider (unless a limited exception
applies).
A. No Child-Buying, Fraud, Misrepresentation, or Non-Bona Fide Intent
The of ficer must determine whether there are allegations or indications of child-buying, fraud,
misrepresentation, or non-bona fide intent (that is, the P AP does not intend to form a parent-child
relationship).
1. Child-Buying
Child-buying is when the P AP(s) or a person or entity working on their behalf gave or will give money
or other consideration, either directly or indirectly , to the child's parent(s), agent(s), other person(s), or
entity as payment for the child or as an inducement to release the child.[1]
An orphan petition must be denied or revoked if there is evidence of child-buying demonstrating the
PAP has not established eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Of ficers must review any
allegations of child-buying or other evidence that indicates child-buying took place in the case and
determine whether it constitutes child-buying.
Child-buying does not include reasonable payment for necessary activities such as administrative,
court, legal, translation, or medical services related to the adoption proceedings. Foreign adoption
services are sometimes expensive and the costs may seem disproportionately high in comparison with
other social services. In many countries, there may be a network of legitimate adoption facilitators,
each playing a transparent role in processing a case and reasonably expecting to be paid for their
services.
The U.S. Department of State (DOS) works closely with foreign governments to identify costs related
to intercountry adoption in particular countries.[2] In most intercountry adoption cases, the expenses
incurred can be explained in terms of reasonable payments. Even cash given directly to a birth mother
may be justifiable if it relates directly to expenses such as pre-natal or neo-natal care, transportation,
lodging, or living expenses.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 954/2618