Criterion 5: The beneficiary's original scientific or scholarly research contributions to the
academic field.[15]
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the
beneficiary’ s contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating whether the original
work is a contribution to the academic field, particularly when the record includes
documentation corroborating the claimed significance. Submitted letters should specifically
describe the beneficiary’ s contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth
the basis of the writer ’s knowledge and expertise.
 
Criterion 6: The beneficiary’ s authorship of scholarly books or articles (in scholarly journals
with international circulation) in the academic field.[19]
First, USCIS determines whether the beneficiary has authored scholarly articles in the field.
Examples of qualifying publications may include, but are not limited to:
Publications in professionally-relevant journals; and
Published conference presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.[20]
Considerations:
As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation,
or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often af filiated
with a college or university . Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed by other experts in
the field of specialization. It should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography , and may include
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article.
Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a scholarly book or as a scholarly
journal with international circulation in the academic field.
Evidence of published material in scholarly journals with international circulation should establish
that the circulation (online or in print) is, in fact, international, and who the intended audience of the
publication is. Scholarly journals are typically written for a specialized audience often using technical
jargon. Articles normally include an abstract, a description of methodology , footnotes, endnotes, and
bibliography .
 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1176/2618