once the legal custody and joint residence requirements are met. Residing with either adoptive parent
will meet the joint residence requirement with respect to each adoptive parent.[45]
Derivative Spouse and Child
Other than exceptions for U nonimmigrants, asylee derivatives, and refugee derivatives adjusting
status, USCIS cannot approve the Form I-485  for a derivative applicant until the principal applicant
has been granted lawful permanent resident status.[46]
In addition, there are a few special categories where certain additional family members qualify as
derivative applicants and may adjust status. These include:
Adjustment applicants in T or U nonimmigrant status; 
 Applicants under Section 13 or the Act of September 1 1, 1957 (Public Law 85-316); and
 Those applying as dependents under HRIF A. 
More information is provided in the program-specific parts of this volume.
7. Cross-Chargeability
In certain situations, an applicant may benefit from the charging of their visa to their spouse’ s or
parent’ s country of birth rather than their own. This is known as cross-chargeability . 
In practice, cross-chargeability is used where the preference quota category is backlogged for one
spouse’ s country of chargeability but is current for the other spouse’ s country of chargeability . The
principal applicant may cross-charge to the derivative spouse’ s country , and the derivative spouse
may cross-charge to the principal’ s country .[47]
Derivative children may cross-charge to either parent’ s country as necessary .[48] Parents may not
cross-charge to a child’ s country . In other words, the principal applicant or derivative spouse may
never use their child’ s country of birth for cross-chargeability .
Whenever possible, cross-chargeability should be applied to preserve family unity and allow family
members to immigrate together .[49]
Eligibility
In order to benefit from cross-chargeability , both applicants must be eligible to adjust status. A
derivative using the principal’ s country of chargeability may adjust status with the principal or at any
time thereafter . When a principal uses the derivative spouse’ s country of chargeability , both applicants
are considered principal applicants: one for the purpose of conferring immigrant status and the
other for the purpose of conferring a more favorable chargeability .[50] As such, the of ficer should
approve both adjustment applications at the same time.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1465/2618