An applicant who has never had contact with an LEA  regarding the victimization associated with the
acts of a severe form of traf ficking in persons is not eligible for T nonimmigrant status unless the
applicant qualifies for the age-based exemption or trauma-based exception.[74]
5. Age-Based Exemption and T rauma-Based Exception
An applicant is exempt from the requirement to comply with reasonable law enforcement requests if
the applicant was under 18 years of age at the time at least one of the acts of traf ficking occurred.[75]
An applicant may qualify for an exception if the applicant can establish that the applicant’ s lack of
contact with an LEA  or compliance with a reasonable request for assistance is due to physical or
psychological trauma.[76]
6. The Relationship Between Assistance with Law Enforcement and V ictimization
To establish eligibility for T nonimmigrant status, applicants must demonstrate that the acts of
trafficking that they reported to law enforcement are also the acts of traf ficking that they experienced
directly . Witnessing traf ficking alone is not suf ficient to satisfy this requirement.
There are many complex factors that inform law enforcement’ s decision to pursue a case, including
the high evidentiary standards for pursuing criminal matters, the dif ficulty locating the perpetrator , and
the expiration of the statute of limitations. The decision to pursue an investigation or prosecution falls
solely within the discretion of law enforcement. There is no requirement that law enforcement initiate
or complete an investigation or prosecution to satisfy the law enforcement cooperation requirement.
Applicants can satisfy the reasonable request for assistance requirement if they participate in an
investigation or prosecution against their traf ficker even if the applicant is not directly named in the
case. The applicant does not need to demonstrate that the acts of traf ficking they suf fered are directly
referenced in any investigation or prosecution that law enforcement pursues. Therefore, where a case
evolves into a formal judicial proceeding as a result of the applicant’ s cooperation, the applicant does
not need to demonstrate any direct reference to their victimization.
E. Extreme Hardship
1. General Rule
An applicant must demonstrate that removal from the United States would subject the applicant to
extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm.[77] Generally , a finding of extreme hardship
involving unusual and severe harm may not be based solely upon current or future economic
detriment, or the lack of, or disruption to, social or economic opportunities.[78] Officers must consider
the totality of the circumstances and all relevant factors in analyzing extreme hardship.
2. Factors8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 666/2618