only for one day . 
Neither the INA  nor USCIS places time restrictions on when the violation (or violations) must have
occurred. Therefore, the violation is not required to have occurred during any particular period of time.
For these reasons, USCIS counts any violation that occurs after any entry into the United States.[22] It
does not matter how much time has passed since that entry or whether the person subsequently left
the United States and returned lawfully . 
An of ficer, therefore, must consider all of the applicant’ s entries and time spent inside the United
States when considering these adjustment bars. The of ficer should disregard how much time has
passed since each entry and whether the applicant subsequently left the United States and returned
lawfully .
E. Exceptions
For purposes of INA 245(c)(2)  and INA 245(c)(8) , an applicant’ s failure to maintain lawful immigration
status or violation of nonimmigrant status may be excused only for the particular period of time under
consideration if: 
The applicant was reinstated to F , M, or J status; 
The applicant’ s failure to maintain status was through no fault of his or her own or for technical
reasons; or 
The applicant was granted an extension of nonimmigrant stay or a change of nonimmigrant
status.[23]
1. Reinstatement to F , M, or J Status
If USCIS reinstates a nonimmigrant to F or M student status or if the U.S. Department of State
reinstates a nonimmigrant to J exchange visitor status, the reinstatement only excuses the particular
period of time the nonimmigrant failed to maintain status. The reinstatement does not excuse any prior
or future failure to maintain status.[24]
In order to qualify for reinstatement, a student or exchange visitor must establish that the violation
resulted from circumstances beyond his or her control, such as a natural disaster , illness or closure of
a school, oversight or neglect by the designated school of ficer (DSO) or responsible of ficer (RO), or
the reduction in the student’ s course load authorized by the DSO. The reinstatement is in ef fect the
functional equivalent of waiving the violation. In this instance, the violation subject to the reinstatement
would not bar the alien from adjusting status.
2. No Fault of the Applicant or For T echnical Reasons
No Fault Provision8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1567/2618