however , may be eligible to request the immigrant petition be reinstated, remain approved, or
adjudicated, if pending, as if the principal had not died.[46]
Denial
If an event occurs while the petition is pending that places the alien beneficiary in a relationship for
which there is no visa classification, USCIS denies the petition. For example, if an unmarried son or
daughter of an LPR marries while the petition is pending, USCIS denies the petition because there is
no visa classification for the married son or daughter of an LPR.
Automatic Revocation
If an event occurs after the petition has been approved and before the alien beneficiary adjusts status
or is admitted as a lawful permanent resident, that places the beneficiary in a relationship for which
there is no visa classification the petition is generally automatically revoked.[47] For example, if an
unmarried son or daughter of an LPR marries after the petition is approved and before the alien
beneficiary adjusts status or commences his or her journey to the United States the petition is
automatically revoked because there is no visa classification for the married son or daughter of an
LPR.[48]
C. Family Members of the Principal Beneficiary
1. Family Members of Immediate Relative Beneficiaries
Generally , family members of an immediate relative beneficiary are not eligible to accompany or follow
to join the immediate relative as derivative beneficiaries.[49] However , these family members may
independently qualify for an immigration classification if the U.S. citizen petitioner can demonstrate a
qualifying relationship to the family member .
For example, a U.S. citizen petitioning for an immediate relative spouse may file a separate petition for
the child of that spouse, as the child’ s stepparent. The U.S. citizen petitioner must file a separate
petition for each individual family member who qualifies as an immediate relative.
2. Members of Family-Based Preference Principal Beneficiaries
Spouses and children of a family-based preference beneficiary may be eligible to accompany or follow
to join the principal beneficiary as derivative beneficiaries. The petitioner is not required to file a
separate petition for derivative beneficiaries.[50]
A derivative beneficiary may seek the same immigrant status and is assigned the same priority date
for visa availability as the principal beneficiary if accompanying or following to join the principal
beneficiary .[51] The relationship between the derivative beneficiary and the principal beneficiary must8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1057/2618