warning would not qualify as a particularly significant factor but would be another factor to be
considered in the totality of the circumstances by the of ficer.
Alternatively , in some circumstances where DOS has issued travel warnings with regard to a particular
region of a country , the applicant and qualifying relative may relocate to a dif ferent region of the
country that is not subject to a travel warning. In such a situation, the fact of the region-specific travel
warning would not itself constitute a particularly significant factor; however , the hardships arising from
relocating to another region of the country remains a factor to be considered and may result in a
finding of extreme hardship, based on the totality of the circumstances.[22]
Scenario 6
OP has lived continuously in the United States since entering without inspection 7 years ago. After
dating and living together for 5 years, OP  married her same-sex partner SQ, a U.S. citizen. OP  seeks
a waiver claiming that SQ would suf fer extreme hardship if OP  were denied admission to the United
States. SQ submits a credible, sworn statement indicating that she would remain in the United States
and separate from OP  if the waiver is denied.
SQ owns a business in the United States, and OP  has continuously supported the business, including
by helping out as an of fice manager . SQ would not be able to keep the business running successfully
without OP  because of the expense of hiring an of fice manager . In addition, the DOS country report
indicates that women in OP’ s country of relocation generally may not work outside the home except in
an extremely limited set of professions (such as teaching) for which OP  is not qualified.
The country report also indicates that same-sex marriages are not recognized in that country , that
same-sex sexual conduct is illegal, and that of ficial societal discrimination and harassment (in some
circumstances even giving rise to physical threats or harm) based on sexual orientation or sex is
prevalent in many areas of life.
Based on these factors, SQ fears OP  would be discriminated against and potentially be at risk of
physical harm based on her sexual orientation. SQ has been in therapy due to depression and anxiety
after she learned that her wife may be denied admission to the United States and that her wife would
have to remain in a country where she risks discrimination and physical harm. The couple does not
provide other evidence of hardship.
Analysis of Scenario 6
These facts would generally favor a finding of extreme hardship. SQ would face serious economic
detriment if OP  is denied admission. In addition, the country reports show that SQ’ s marriage to OP
would not be recognized in OP’ s native country , and that OP’ s marriage to a person of the same sex is
a common cause for social ostracism, discrimination, and potential physical danger in OP’ s native
country . The country reports further show that OP’ s access to education, employment and health care
could be limited due to OP’ s sexual orientation and sex, thereby negatively af fecting OP’ s subsistence.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2136/2618