Although not required initial evidence, USCIS may accept personnel records as corroborating
evidence of an employee’ s dates of employment and salary , and the petitioner ’s number of employees
and overall payroll. Personnel records may include, but are not limited to, employment contracts,
salary and payroll documents, and attendance records. USCIS does not, however , consider wages
paid to other employees as available to pay the prof fered wage unless the beneficiary is replacing a
former employee.
Income and Assets of Others
A legal entity generally has a separate existence from its shareholders, members, managers, of ficers,
or owners. Generally , USCIS does not consider the financial resources of persons or entities that have
no explicit legal obligation to pay the prof fered wage, including a parent company , shareholders and
officers of a corporation, members or managers of a limited liability company (LLC) (even if the LLC is
taxed as a partnership or disregarded entity), and limited partners.[14] An annual report, audited
financial statement, or tax return of a parent company is more probative of a subsidiary’ s ability to pay
the prof fered wage where the subsidiary’ s financial data is presented separately within the document.
For sole proprietors and individual employers of domestic workers, there is no separate legal entity .[15]
Therefore, USCIS considers the employer ’s adjusted gross income, minus their personal expenses,
when determining net income; and their personal liquid assets, minus any financial encumbrances on
those assets, when determining net current assets.
In addition, although certain partnerships have a separate legal entity from their partners, general
partners (as opposed to limited partners) are personally liable for the debts of the business. Therefore,
if a petitioning partnership does not have suf ficient net income or net current assets to establish ability
to pay the prof fered wage, USCIS may also consider whether a general partner of the partnership is
individually willing and able to pay the prof fered wage using the same analysis of income and assets
for sole proprietors and individual employers detailed above.
The Business Structures  overview provides more information on the most common business forms or
structures, including information on how they are formed, their fundamental characteristics, and the
tax forms they file with the IRS.
Credit Limits, Bank Lines, or Lines of Credit
Lines of credit and other forms of debt are an integral part of any business operation. Documentation
demonstrating a petitioner ’s access to credit may establish a baseline of creditworthiness, and under
the totality of circumstances, may be considered as one piece of evidence in consideration of whether
the petitioner has the ability to pay the prof fered wage. In instances where a petitioner is relying upon
credit limits, bank lines, or lines of credit to establish ability to pay , USCIS must evaluate the overall
financial position of the petitioner to determine whether the employer is making a realistic job of fer and
has the overall financial ability to satisfy the prof fered wage.[16]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1106/2618