evidence standard when evaluating eligibility for the benefit sought.[1] It is the petitioner ’s burden to
prove eligibility for the benefit sought.[2]
B. Evaluating Primary Evidence
There are various categories of evidence routinely submitted to document an organization’ s business
activities. The submission of what USCIS considers to be credible evidence is not equivalent to
meeting the eligibility criteria. In other words, the petitioner may submit a tax return and it may be
considered credible evidence, but the information provided on the tax return may fail to establish that
the eligibility requirement has been met.
Primary evidence of an organization’ s business activities should corroborate the statements made in
the petitioner ’s letter . In the instance where documentation conflicts with the petitioner ’s statements,
the of ficer should request further clarification, along with corroborative documentary evidence.
Requests for Evidence
A Request for Evidence (RFE) may be appropriate when the initial review of the record does not
establish that the petitioner has met all the eligibility requirements.[3] In addition, an RFE[4] should be
sent where:
The record contains evidence of material fraud or misrepresentation; or
The of ficer has knowledge of previous mala fide petitions from the same petitioner .
The RFE should:
Identify each of the areas of eligibility the petitioner has not met;
Discuss what is deficient with any evidence already provided; and
Provide examples of evidence that the petitioner could provide to meet the area of eligibility .
C. Special Adjudicative Issues
1. Iran Sanctions
Executive Order 12959[5] imposed economic sanctions against Iran that prohibit, among other things,
the importation of Iranian services where the alien is performing such service as an agent, employee,
or contractor of the Iranian government or a business or other organization in Iran. However , a Petition
for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ) for an Iranian citizen may be approved if the Iranian is:
Not normally a resident of Iran; and
Not working in a way connected to:
The Iranian government (excluding diplomatic and consular services);
An Iranian business;
An Iranian organization; or8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 519/2618