If the interpreter who assisted during the medical examination is also serving as the interpreter for the
naturalization interview , and is to be questioned as a witness, the interpreter must be disqualified from
interpreting for that alien at the naturalization interview unless there is a valid exception for good
cause.[23] If no good cause exception applies, the of ficer reschedules the interview , as needed, to
allow the alien time to find a new interpreter .
Interpreter at Interview
If at the interview the of ficer needs to ask the alien questions about Form N-648 or explain why it is
insuf ficient, the of ficer must do so in the alien’ s preferred language, with the use of an interpreter ,[24]
and while the alien is under oath. If the of fice has a language service available and the alien agrees,
the of ficer may use the language service when the interpreter provided by the alien is disqualified. In
the agency’ s discretion, as in all cases, the of ficer may disqualify an interpreter provided by the alien
or a telephonic language service interpreter for cause and reschedule the interview .[25] If the of ficer
disqualifies the alien’ s interpreter and no additional questioning about the Form N-648 is needed to
determine its suf ficiency , the of ficer should reject the N-648.
4. Credible Reasons to Doubt the V alidity of Form N-648
One of the reasons that USCIS might consider a Form N-648  insuf ficient is if there are credible
reasons to doubt its validity . Such reasons may include, but are not limited to, discrepancies (for
example, the medical certification directly conflicts with other evidence), misrepresentation, or fraud.
However , USCIS generally presumes that the medical professional’ s diagnosis is valid, unless credible
evidence suggests otherwise. The presumption that the medical professional has correctly diagnosed
the alien’ s medical condition is not a presumption that the alien has met his or her burden of
establishing eligibility for the waiver .
If an of ficer identifies inconsistencies or discrepancies in the Form N-648 during the naturalization
interview , the alien must be given an opportunity to address the inconsistencies. If discrepancies are
not resolved during the interview , the of ficer may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE). When issuing
an RFE, the of ficer should only request the information necessary to determine the suf ficiency of the
Form N-648 . In some cases, USCIS may require:
A new Form N-648;
Medical records to verify the diagnosis; or
Evidence confirming that the medical professional actually examined and diagnosed the alien.
Such requests are warranted when there are credible reasons to doubt the validity of the Form N-648
particularly if documentary evidence clearly contradicts the medical diagnosis or claimed disability or
impairment.
Examples of Credible Reasons to Doubt V alidity8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2379/2618