Step If Yes, then … If No, then … For More Information
public charge the
opportunity to post a
public charge bond?a public charge bond.
Proceed to Step 8.a NOID or deny
the application in
accordance with
USCIS policy .
Step 8: W as a proper
and suitable bond
posted on behalf of
the applicant?The applicant may be
admitted despite
inadmissibility based
on the public charge
ground. The of ficer
should continue with
the adjudication of
the application.The applicant is
inadmissible on
the public charge
ground. The
officer should
deny the
application.Chapter 1 1, Public Charge
Bonds: Posting and
Accepting Bonds [ 8 USCIS-
PM G.1 1]
D. Decision
1. Request for Evidence or Notice of Intent to Deny
If the initial evidence submitted by the applicant does not establish eligibility or ineligibility , USCIS may
issue an RFE or NOID to request more information or evidence from the applicant in accordance with
USCIS policy .[22]
If a NOID is issued, the of ficer must provide an explanation of the consideration of all the factors and
why the of ficer believes that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the
government for subsistence, based on the consideration of the totality of the applicant’ s
circumstances. If an of ficer is basing a decision in whole or in part on information of which the
applicant is unaware or could not reasonably be expected to be aware, the of ficer must issue a NOID.
[23]
2. Not Inadmissible Based on Public Charge Ground
If, after reviewing the application for adjustment of status and supporting evidence, the of ficer finds
that the applicant is not likely to at any time become primarily dependent on the government for
subsistence based on the consideration of the totality of applicant’ s circumstances, then the of ficer
should determine that the applicant is not inadmissible based on the public charge ground. The of ficer
should continue with the adjudication.
3. Inadmissible Based on Public Charge Ground
If, after reviewing the application for adjustment of status and supporting evidence, the of ficer finds
that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2026/2618