the current EAD’ s validity period.
E. Automatic T ermination and Revocation on Notice
Employment authorization automatically terminates if the applicant is no longer eligible due to certain
circumstances outlined in the regulations.[66] No further action or notice by USCIS is necessary in the
case of automatic termination.[67]
A notice of intent to revoke (NOIR)[68] is necessary upon a determination that:
The statement of material facts contained in the application was not true and correct;
The applicant violated the terms and conditions of the approved application;
The basis for the EAD is no longer valid;[69] or
USCIS approved the application in error .
A response with countervailing evidence may be submitted within 15 days from the date of service of
the NOIR.
F. Withdrawing Application
An applicant may withdraw Form I-765 at any time before USCIS makes a final decision on the
application.[70] Any request to withdraw must be made in writing to the USCIS of fice listed on the
receipt notice for Form I-765. The applicant or an authorized representative with a properly filed Notice
of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative ( Form G-28 ) must sign the
withdrawal request.
G. Motion to Reopen or Reconsider
An applicant may submit a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider by filing a Notice of Appeal or
Motion ( Form I-290B ) within 30 days of the denial (33 days if denial notice was mailed to the
applicant). Motions to reopen or reconsider are typically adjudicated by the same of fice that
adjudicated Form I-765. USCIS issues a written decision on a motion to reopen or reconsider .
An of ficer denies a motion if the applicant does not meet the motion requirements or has not submitted
evidence to overcome the denial grounds. The written denial explains why the motion did not
overcome the denial grounds.
An of ficer approves a motion and reopens the Form I-765 if the applicant meets the motion
requirements and has submitted evidence to overcome all reasons for the original denial.[71]
If USCIS reopens the case, an of ficer may approve the Form I-765 or issue a new denial. In all cases
where USCIS denies the application for reasons not contained in the original decision, USCIS first8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2210/2618