Example 
In the course of an arrest for disorderly conduct, an alien falsely claimed that he was born in Puerto
Rico. However , the facts of the case did not support that he had falsely claimed U.S. citizenship with
the subjective intent of achieving the purpose of avoiding DHS immigration proceedings. Furthermore,
the police could not have conferred such a result, and the alien’ s status as a U.S. citizen was
immaterial to the arrest proceedings because the police treated U.S. citizens and aliens the same.[32]
Example
An alien stated twice during DHS interrogation that he was a U.S. citizen. He failed to show he had not
made this claim to U.S. citizenship with the subjective intent of achieving the purpose of avoiding
removal proceedings. He also failed to show that citizenship did not af fect removal proceedings.
Therefore, the alien was inadmissible for falsely claiming U.S. citizenship.[33]
Example
An employer made a job of fer to an alien who did not have employment authorization. In completing
the USCIS Form I-9 , the alien marked the box claiming U.S. citizenship with the intent to avoid the
need to obtain and present a valid and unexpired employment authorization document. The alien is
inadmissible since the alien made the false claim for the purpose of avoiding additional requirements
under the immigration laws.[34]
Example
An alien applied for a license under state law . The eligibility is not restricted to U.S. citizens but an
alien must submit additional evidence that a U.S. citizen is not required to submit. Specifically , an
alien must present evidence of lawful status or at least authorization to accept employment. The alien
falsely claimed citizenship in order to avoid the additional evidentiary requirements. The alien is
inadmissible since the alien made the false claim for the purpose of avoiding additional requirements
under state law .[35]
4. Representation Must Be for Own Benefit
An alien is only inadmissible if the person makes a misrepresentation for their own benefit. If an
alien misrepresents another person’ s citizenship, the person that made the misrepresentation is not
inadmissible for falsely claiming U.S. citizenship.[36]
5. For Purpose of Coming into the United States
An alien who makes a successful false claim to U.S. citizenship or nationality at the port-of-entry and
who is allowed into the United States has not been admitted. In order for an alien to be admitted, CBP8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2079/2618