While the regulation does not require audited financial reports, unaudited budgets or financial
statements should be accompanied by supporting evidence that is verifiable. For example, budgets
should be generally consistent with past revenue and supported by bank statements showing listed
cash balances. When relying on bank statements, they should show an availability of suf ficient funds
to cover the beneficiary’ s salaried compensation over a suf ficient period of time.
Further , USCIS does not consider salaried or non-salaried support deriving from a third party as a
portion of the beneficiary’ s required compensation. The regulation requires that compensation derive
from the petitioner .[29] Room and board at a church member ’s home, or provided by any other church,
is a form of third-party compensation. Unless the church reimburses the other party for this room and
board, such arrangements are not a qualifying form of non-salaried compensation. A petitioner may
also submit evidence such as proof that it owns the property or a lease showing it pays for the
residential space to establish that it is the entity providing non-salaried compensation.
In situations where the petitioning entity is not the entity that will directly compensate the religious
worker , USCIS reviews the relationship between the two entities in the totality of the circumstances to
confirm that the petitioner who is attesting in the petition is the employer of the beneficiary ,[30] and that
the petitioner has the ability and intent to compensate the beneficiary .
In making this determination, USCIS considers whether there is a documented relationship between
the petitioner and the entity providing salaried or non-salaried compensation to show that the
petitioner , through this other entity , is still compensating the beneficiary . Factors that may demonstrate
this relationship include, but are not limited to, the following:
The petitioning entity has the authority to dictate financial policy , remove clergy for cause, and
veto acquisition of debt at the compensating entity;
The petitioning entity owns the compensating entity’ s assets or includes the compensating entity
on its audited financial statements;
According to established rules or practice in the relevant organization or denomination, the
petitioning entity makes personnel decisions for the compensating entity;
Any other documentation showing the petitioning entity has direct oversight or involvement in the
financial and personnel matters of the compensating entity .
As an example, a diocese that has the authority to move clergy from one church to another and jointly
owns assets with its subordinate churches that are part of the same group’ s tax-exempt status may
properly file a petition for clergy at a subordinate church even if the subordinate church directly pays
the salary . In this example, documentation showing how the subordinate church will compensate the
religious worker may be used to satisfy the petitioner ’s obligation.[31]
Consistent with the required attestations, the prospective employer must state whether the beneficiary
will receive salaried or non-salaried compensation and the details of such compensation.[32]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 603/2618