appropriate, submits a formal request for revocation of the passport or cancellation of the CRBA[23] to
DOS.
Only DOS has the authority to revoke a U.S. passport or cancel a CRBA.[24] DOS may revoke a U.S.
passport or cancel a CRBA  in cases where the passport or CRBA  was obtained or issued illegally ,
fraudulently , or erroneously .[25]
USCIS provides the following information to DOS in the passport revocation or CRBA  cancellation
request:
The applicant’ s complete biographic information, including name and any known aliases;
The applicant’ s last known address;
All previous unexpired U.S. passport numbers and alien registration numbers (A-numbers);
A copy of the CRBA  or of the biographical page of the U.S. passport submitted as evidence (if
available);
An explanation for requesting revocation or cancellation, including reasons for the request,
analysis of the facts and dates used in determining that the passport or CRBA  should be revoked
or cancelled, and evaluation of evidence indicating that the applicant did not acquire U.S.
citizenship;
Copies of all documentary evidence in support of the request, including certified translations of
any documents written or originally prepared in a foreign language; and
The contact information of the USCIS of fice making the request.
Adjudication of Application with Revocation or Cancellation Request
After reviewing the case on the merits and requesting a revocation of a U.S. passport or a cancellation
of a CRBA  from DOS, the of ficer generally may not complete the adjudication of the Application for
Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322 until DOS responds.
If DOS notifies USCIS that it does not intend to revoke the passport or cancel the CRBA, USCIS
cannot naturalize a U.S. citizen and must deny the Application for Citizenship and Issuance of
Certificate under Section 322.[26] However , a child with a properly issued U.S. passport or CRBA  who
has met all of the requirements for acquisition of citizenship under a dif ferent section of law may file an
Application for Certificate of Citizenship ( Form N-600 ) to obtain a Certificate of Citizenship.[27]
If the passport was valid at the time of filing but is expired at the time of adjudication, the of ficer should
review the case with USCIS counsel and, if appropriate, consult with DOS before adjudicating.[28]
If DOS revokes the U.S. passport or cancels the CRBA, the applicant may become eligible for
naturalization under INA  322. After the U.S. passport is revoked or the CRBA  is cancelled, the of ficer
may then approve the Application for Certificate of Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate under
Section 322, if all other eligibility requirements are met.[29]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2507/2618