4. Sole-Proprietorship
A sole proprietorship is a business in which an individual owns all the assets, owes all the liabilities,
and operates the business in his or her personal capacity .[19] Unlike a corporation, a sole
proprietorship does not exist as an entity apart from the individual owner .[20] A sole-proprietorship may
not file a petition on behalf of the alien owner , as such would be considered an impermissible self-
petition.
There is a dif ference between a self-incorporated petitioner and a sole proprietorship. Although a self-
incorporated petitioner may only have one owner or employee, a corporation is a separate and distinct
legal entity from its owners or stockholders and therefore may petition for that owner or employee.[21]
5. Doing Business
Doing business means the regular , systematic, and continuous provision of goods or services or both
by a qualifying organization. Doing business does not include the mere presence of an agent or of fice
of the qualifying organization in the United States and abroad.[22]
Foreign Employer Must Continue to do Business
Both the U.S. employer and at least one qualifying organization abroad must continue to do business
up until the time of visa issuance or adjustment of status.[23]
If the beneficiary’ s foreign employer ’s operations abroad cease entirely (for example, the company ,
together with all other otherwise qualifying related organizations, goes out of business or relocates
completely to the United States) before the time of visa issuance or adjustment of status, the
beneficiary is no longer be eligible for classification as a multinational executive or manager .
U.S. Employer Must Have Been Doing Business for At Least 1 Year
The U.S. employer must have been actively engaged in doing business for at least 1 year at the time
of filing of the petition.[24] Therefore, a U.S. organization may have a legal existence in the United
States for more than 1 year , but if it has not engaged in the continuous provision of goods and
services for at least 1 year , the organization is ineligible to file petitions for multinational executives or
managers.
C. Beneficiary Requirements
1. Managerial Capacity
The statutory definition of "managerial capacity" includes both "personnel managers" and "function
managers."[25]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1186/2618