3. Requests for Evidence and Interviews
Officers may issue Requests for Evidence for Form I-102  when necessary .[11] In general, USCIS does
not require interviews for Form I-102 applicants; however , USCIS may interview the applicant if he or
she is claiming arrival as a nonimmigrant who was not issued Form I-94 or if there are doubts
regarding the applicant’ s claims.
The of ficer should be alert for honest errors in the information the applicant provides. For example, if
the applicant was inspected at a pre-flight inspection station outside the United States, he or she may
have provided incorrect information regarding his or her place of arrival.
D. Decision
Approval
Form I-102  is not a discretionary application, and there is no requirement to verify maintenance of
status or determine admissibility . If USCIS records and documentary evidence submitted by the
applicant support the claimed admission or parole, the of ficer must approve the application. USCIS
then notifies the applicant of the approval along with the replacement Form I-94, Form I-94W , or Form
I-95.[12] 
Denial
If the evidence does not demonstrate the claimed admission or parole, or if the record shows that the
requested I-94, I-94W , or I-95 was fraudulently obtained, the of ficer denies the application and sends
written notice to the applicant.[13] While there is no appeal from an adverse decision on Form I-102,
the applicant may seek a motion to reopen or reconsider by filing a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-
290B ).[14] If appropriate, the of ficer should follow USCIS procedures for placing the applicant into
removal proceedings if the period to file a motion has elapsed.
Footnotes
[^ 1] In general, this includes aliens who entered the United States as nonimmigrants, parolees,
asylees, refugees, and certain aliens who entered under the Compact of Free Association between the
United States and the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the
Republic of Palau. See Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival-Departure Document
(Form I-102 ). Asylees and those who have Form I-94 as a temporary Form I-551 cannot use the
Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival-Departure Document ( Form I-102 ) to replace
a lost, mutilated, or destroyed Form I-94. Instead, they must contact a USCIS field of fice or the asylum
office with jurisdiction over their current residence to obtain a replacement or corrected Form I-94.
Those who obtained derivative asylee status through a Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 )8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2256/2618