B. Standalone Petitions
An immigrant investor not associated with a regional center must, together with the Form I-526
petition, demonstrate that they have invested, or are actively in the process of investing, lawfully
obtained capital in a new commercial enterprise located within the United States that will create at
least 10 direct full-time jobs for qualifying employees.[14] For petitions filed on or after March 15, 2022,
an immigrant investor seeking to pool their investment with one or more additional immigrant investors
seeking EB-5 classification must file for such classification in association with a regional center .[15]
C. Material Change
1. In General
A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. USCIS does not approve petitions if, after
filing, the immigrant investor becomes eligible under a new set of facts or circumstances. Changes
that are considered material that occur after the filing of an immigrant investor petition result in the
investor ’s ineligibility if the investor has not obtained CPR status.[16]
If material changes occur after the approval of the immigrant petition, but before the investor has
obtained CPR status, such changes would generally constitute good and suf ficient cause to issue a
notice of intent to revoke and, if not overcome, would generally constitute good cause to revoke the
approval of the petition. A change is material if the changed circumstances would have a natural
tendency to influence or are predictably capable of af fecting the decision.[17]
Changes that occur in accordance with a business plan and other supporting documents as filed will
generally not be considered material. For example, if at the time of filing the immigrant petition no jobs
have yet been created, but after approval of the immigrant petition and before the investor has
obtained CPR status, the investment in the new commercial enterprise results in the creation of 10
jobs in accordance with the investor ’s business plan as filed, such a change would generally not be
considered material.
If the organizational documents for a new commercial enterprise contain a liquidation provision that
does not otherwise constitute an impermissible debt arrangement, the documents may generally be
amended to remove such a provision in order to allow the new commercial enterprise to continue to
operate through the regional center investor ’s period of CPR status. Such an amendment would
generally not be considered a material change because facts related to the immigrant investor ’s
eligibility would not change.
In general, if, at the time of adjudication, the investor is asserting eligibility under a materially dif ferent
set of facts that did not exist when they filed the immigrant petition, the investor must file a new
immigrant petition.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1279/2618