for the durable POA  to take ef fect have occurred. Often this evidence includes a physician’ s statement
indicating that the durable POA  is in ef fect as the result of the incapacitated adult’ s disability . USCIS
accepts a durable POA  only if it complies with the state laws where it was executed. It is the burden of
the person making the request to demonstrate that a durable POA  is valid and in ef fect under the
applicable state law .
If the person providing signatory authority under the POA  is also acting as the incapacitated benefit
requestor ’s attorney or authorized representative for purposes of appearing before DHS, the person
must submit a Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative ( Form G-28 ),
and meet other regulatory requirements.[18]
3. Authorized Signers for Corporations or Other Legal Entities[19]
Under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), corporations and other legal entities, such as limited
partnerships (LP), professional corporations (PC or P .C.), limited liability companies (LLC), or limited
liability partnerships (LLP), may file certain requests with USCIS. Such a filing may include a request
to classify an alien as an immigrant or nonimmigrant under a specific employment-based category , for
example.
Benefit requests filed with USCIS by such legal entities may only be signed by a person with the
authority to sign on behalf of the petitioning entity . Authorized persons may include, but are not limited
to:
An executive of ficer of a corporation or P .C. with authority to act on behalf of the corporate entity
and legally bind and commit the corporate entity in all matters (for example, chief executive
officer, president, or vice president);
A managing partner or managing member of an LLC or LLP;
A duly authorized partner of a partnership;
An attorney employed in an employer-employee relationship by a corporation or other legal
entity as its legal representative, or as a legal representative by the corporation or other legal
entity’ s legal department in an employer-employee relationship (for example, in-house counsel,
or other attorney employees or contractors);
A person employed within the entity’ s human resources, human capital, employee relations,
personnel, or similar department who is authorized to sign legal documents on behalf of the
entity;
An executor or administrator of an estate;
A trustee of a trust or a duly appointed conservator; or
Any other employee[20] of the entity who has the authority to legally bind and commit the entity
to the terms and conditions attached to the specific request and attestations made in the
request.
A sole proprietor is the only person authorized to sign a request filed on behalf of a sole proprietorship.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 214/2618