The physician must include the required filing fee[7] with the completed Application for Civil Surgeon
Designation. Applications for civil surgeon designation that do not include the correct filing fee will be
rejected. 
3. Evidence
The physician must include evidence that shows that he or she meets the eligibility requirements to be
designated a civil surgeon. At a minimum, the civil surgeon applicant must submit all of the following
evidence with the completed Application for Civil Surgeon Designation ( Form I-910 ):[8]
Proof of U.S. citizenship, legal status, or authorization to work in the United States; 
A copy of the physician’ s current medical license in the state in which he or she seeks to perform
immigration medical examinations; 
A copy of the physician’ s medical degree verifying he or she is an M.D. or D.O.; and
Evidence to verify the requisite professional experience, such as letters of employment
verification. 
4. Signature
The physician must sign the application.[9] The signature must be submitted to USCIS on Application
for Civil Surgeon Designation ( Form I-910 ). Applications for civil surgeon designation that do not
include a signature may be rejected or returned to the physician. 
C. Adjudication of Civil Surgeon Applications
1. Adjudication
To determine whether to approve or deny the application for civil surgeon designation, the of ficer
should follow these steps:
Adjudication of Civil Surgeon Applications
Step 1: Determine whether the physician meets all of the eligibility requirements to be
designated a civil surgeon:
Is the physician authorized to work in the United States?[10]
Is the physician an M.D. or a D.O?
Is the physician licensed without restriction in the state in which he or she seeks to perform
immigration medical examinations? 
Does the physician have at least four years of professional experience, not including residency
or internships or other experience related to training?
If there is insuf ficient information in the application and evidence submitted with the application to
make this determination, the of ficer may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) for additional8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1936/2618