should a person’ s complaint be dismissed or disregarded because the proper process for filing a
complaint was not followed. All complaints received must be handled appropriately .
All complaints should be responded to by providing a written response, telephone call, or if applicable,
addressing the complaint in person upon submission. The response should explain steps taken to
resolve the issue. In cases where the complaint cannot be resolved in a reasonable time, the
response should acknowledge the receipt of the complaint, when a resolution is expected, and any
additional action the person may take.
Applicants with complaints about being victimized by a person engaged in the unauthorized practice of
immigration law (UPIL) should be directed to USCIS’  website  where they can find state-by-state
reporting information, as well as information on how to report UPIL  to the Federal Trade Commission.
C. Allegations of Misconduct
USCIS employees are also subject to mandatory reporting requirements for known or suspected
misconduct by federal employees and contractors.
1. Employee Misconduct
Allegations of misconduct by USCIS employees and contractors may include, but are not limited to:
Fraud, corruption, bribery , and embezzlement;
Sexual advances or sexual misconduct;
Theft or misuse of funds and theft of government property;
Perjury;
Physical assault;[5]
Unauthorized release of classified or special protected class[6] information;
Drug use or possession;
Unauthorized use or misuse of sensitive of ficial government databases;
Misuse of of ficial position for private gain;
Misuse of a government vehicle or property;
Failure to properly account for government fund;
Unauthorized use or misuse of a government purchase or travel card;
Falsification of travel documents; and
Falsification of employment application documents.
2. Reporting Employee Misconduct
Benefit requestors and other interested parties should report allegations of misconduct by USCIS
employees promptly to a USCIS supervisor , USCIS Of fice of Investigations (OI), or DHS OIG.[7]
Individuals may report allegations of misconduct involving discriminatory conduct to DHS Of fice of
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL).[8]8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 201/2618