jurisdiction for sputum testing. This referral, testing, and treatment can be a lengthy process, but the
civil surgeon cannot sign of f on the Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination
Record ( Form I-693 ) until any required steps relating to TB have been completed.
Under the Technical Instructions, a pregnant applicant can defer the chest X-ray until after pregnancy
but the civil surgeon may not submit the form until the chest X-ray has been performed, interpreted,
and the appropriate follow-up, if required under the Technical Instructions, is completed. If the of ficer
receives an incomplete medical examination for a pregnant applicant, the of ficer should return the
original form to the applicant for corrective action according to established local procedures. 
Referral and Reporting to Health Departments
If a referral is required, the civil surgeon must not sign Form I-693 until the referral evaluation section
has been completed and received back from the appropriate health department. If the referral
evaluation section is not documented, the of ficer should issue an RFE for corrective action.
Determining whether a referral is required is detailed in the TB Technical Instructions  for Civil
Surgeons.
2. Syphilis
An applicant may be required to undergo serological testing for syphilis depending on the applicant’ s
age and other factors set by CDC. Civil surgeons must consult CDC’ s Technical Instructions for Civil
Surgeons  for current requirements, and to ensure they are using approved screening, testing, and
treatment procedures. The testing age is determined by the applicant’ s age on the date the civil
surgeon completed the immigration medical examination and signed Form I-693 , not the age at the
time USCIS adjudicates the application.
3. Gonorrhea
An applicant may be required to undergo testing for gonorrhea depending on the applicant’ s age and
other factors set by CDC. Civil surgeons must consult CDC’ s Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons
for current requirements, and to ensure they are using approved screening, testing, and treatment
procedures. The testing age is determined by the applicant’ s age on the date the civil surgeon
completed the immigration medical examination and signed Form I-693 , not the age at the time USCIS
adjudicates the application.
4. Other Class A and Class B Conditions for Communicable Diseases of Public Health
Significance
According to the Technical Instructions for Hansen's Disease (Leprosy) for Civil Surgeons , screening
for Hansen’ s disease includes obtaining medical history with inquiries as to past and present
diagnoses of Hansen’ s disease, history of skin lesions unresponsive to treatment, and family history of
skin lesions or known Hansen’ s disease. The physical exam must include a search for signs and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1911/2618