3. Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny
If USCIS is adjudicating the orphan petition and any of the required evidence is missing, deficient, or
adverse, or the eligibility requirements have otherwise not been demonstrated,[26] the of ficer issues
an RFE or NOID, as appropriate.
4. Not Clearly Approvable Cases
If the consular of ficer reviews the record and it does not establish by a preponderance of the evidence
the child meets the U.S. immigration definition of an orphan, the consular of ficer must refer the petition
to USCIS as a not clearly approvable case.
A case is not clearly approvable if the record does not establish the child is eligible for classification as
an orphan. This may happen when:
There is a change that necessitates an RFE for an updated home study;[27]
Any state pre-adoption requirements have not been met for IR-4 cases;
There is not enough information in the record to meet the preponderance of evidence standard
and make a favorable determination;
There is materially inconsistent or conflicting information in the record that must be reconciled; or
There is adverse information in the record, such as evidence of child-buying, fraud (including
fraudulent documentation), misrepresentation, or non-bona fide intent.
Consular of ficers cannot issue RFEs or NOIDs. A consular of ficer must refer any orphan petition that is
not clearly approvable to the USCIS of fice with jurisdiction over its adjudication, along with the
supporting documents, the completed orphan determination, and any other relevant documentation.
[28] Consular of ficers may contact USCIS before referring a case as not clearly approvable. This may
be especially important in circumstances where there is a compelling medical or humanitarian need.
Once USCIS receives a not clearly approvable case, USCIS consults with the consular post and
DOS’ s Visa Of fice as necessary to understand the consular of ficer's concerns before proceeding.
Then the USCIS of ficer does one of the following:
If the available evidence is suf ficient to establish that the child is an orphan by a preponderance
of the evidence, the of ficer approves the petition and returns the petition to the consular post for
visa adjudication.
If the evidence is insuf ficient, the of ficer issues an RFE or NOID.[29] The P AP has the
opportunity to respond to the RFE or NOID with additional information. The of ficer must then
assess the totality of the evidence in the record to determine if the P AP has met the burden of
proving that the child beneficiary qualifies as an orphan.
If there is no possibility that the petitioner can rebut the reason for the denial, the of ficer issues a
denial.[30]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 968/2618