Additionally , applicants who have no relationship to the principal asylee could claim a relationship as
either a spouse or child, and likewise the principal asylee could claim a relationship to them, in order
to be granted asylum. These applicants are ineligible for admission as derivative asylees and may be
found removable for fraud or misrepresentation.
Although they were admitted as derivative asylees, they were not eligible for that status when they
were admitted because their status was dependent upon their relationship to the principal, which did
not exist at the time of admission. USCIS may decide to pursue termination of status on these
persons; however , the actual relationship of the derivative to the principal should be a factor when
considering possible termination of status. 
In cases in which the adjustment of ficer makes an initial determination that termination may be
appropriate, he or she should return the file to the asylum of fice for further review and potential
termination of status. 
D. Not Firmly Resettled in Any Foreign Country
An applicant who has firmly resettled in another country is not eligible to obtain either asylum or
adjustment of status as an asylee in the United States. A person is considered firmly resettled in
another country if he or she has been of fered resident status, citizenship, or some other type of
permanent resettlement in another country .
The asylum of ficer would have considered whether the application was firmly resettled prior to arriving
in the United States so an of ficer considering the adjustment of status application would rarely need to
reconsider the prior determination. However , any evidence in the file that suggests resettlement in
another country subsequent to the granting of asylum status will need to be considered.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 209.2(a)(2) .
[^ 2] Because USCIS’  practice and policy has varied with regard to whether the 1 year of physical
presence was required at the time of filing or at the time of adjudication of the application, USCIS
considers an asylee who was adjusted to lawful permanent residence despite not having accrued 1
year of physical presence at the time of filing their application for adjustment to have been lawfully
admitted for permanent residence if the applicant had accrued 1 year of physical presence by the time
of adjudication and the admission was otherwise lawful.
[^ 3] For more information, see Chapter 4, Documentation and Evidence, Section A, Required
Documentation and Evidence [ 7 USCIS-PM M.4(A) ].
[^ 4] See INA 101(a)(42) .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1816/2618