Suspensions, debarments, and terminations are final upon the expiration of the period in which to file
an appeal or , if appealed, upon the decision on that appeal. Investors need only reassociate within
180 days of their receipt of USCIS notification of the debarment or termination to take advantage of
the ability to reassociate under INA 203(b)(5)(M) .[4]
2. Types of Sanctions
Suspensions
Suspensions typically last for the period specified in the notice or , as applicable, until the individual or
entity cures the violation. A suspension continues until the end of the date specified in the notice, if
included in the notice. If no date is listed, the suspension lasts until USCIS determines that the
violation has been cured and notifies the individual or entity that it is lifting the suspension.
Generally , suspension refers to temporarily disallowing the suspended individual or entity from some
or all forms of participation in the EB-5 program. For regional centers, a suspension does not
terminate the regional center designation and the regional center must continue to comply with all
requirements applicable to designated regional centers, including the filing of annual statements and
annual payment of the EB-5 Integrity Fund fee. The notice identifies the specific activities in which the
individual or entity is prohibited from participating.
In general, during the period a regional center is suspended:
USCIS may continue to adjudicate Immigrant Petitions by Regional Center Investor ( Form I-
526E ) for investors af filiated with an approved Application for Approval of an Investment in a
Commercial Enterprise ( Form I-956F );
USCIS may hold adjudication of pending Form I-956F applications and any associated Form I-
526E petitions; and
USCIS may reject or deny any new Form I-956F applications from the suspended regional
center .
In general, during the period a new commercial enterprise or job-creating entity is suspended, where
USCIS has approved a Form I-956F application, USCIS holds adjudication of investor Form I-526E
petitions associated with that project.[5]
Officers issuing notices of suspension, however , retain discretion to determine the scope of
suspensions on a case-by-case basis.
Debarments
Debarment by USCIS typically prevents individuals or entities from participating in the EB-5 program,
precluding all future involvement of the individual or entity with the EB-5 program. While the INA
provides authority to terminate the participation of new commercial enterprises or job-creating entities8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1317/2618