Whether the applicant was inspected and admitted or paroled or has an approved petition as a
VAWA self-petitioner;
Is eligible to receive an immigrant visa;
Is admissible to the United States for permanent residence; and
Has an immigrant visa immediately available to him or her at the time he or she files the
adjustment application.[43]
If the of ficer finds that the requestor does not meet the eligibility requirements but may be eligible for a
waiver , exemption, or other form of relief, the of ficer should determine whether the requestor qualifies
for a waiver , exemption, or other form of relief. Not all applications are concurrently filed, and in some
instances, applicants must file a separate waiver application or application for relief and have that
application approved before the applicant qualifies for the benefit. 
If the of ficer finds that the requestor meets the eligibility requirements because of an approved waiver ,
exemption, or other form of relief, the of ficer must then determine whether the request should be
granted as a matter of discretion. If the of ficer finds that the requestor does not meet all applicable
eligibility requirements, the of ficer can still include a discretionary analysis in the denial. The
discretionary determination is the final step in the adjudication of a benefit request. Adding a
discretionary analysis to a denial is useful if an appellate body on review disagrees with the of ficer’s
conclusion that the requestor failed to meet the threshold eligibility requirements. In such a situation,
the discretionary denial may still stand.
1. Basic Adjudication Steps
Officers should generally follow a three-step process when adjudicating a benefit request involving a
discretionary analysis.
Basic Adjudication Steps Involving Discretion
Step One Fact finding
Step T wo Determine whether requestor meets the threshold eligibility requirements
Step Three Conduct discretionary analysis
Fact Finding[44]
Fact finding refers to the process of gathering and assessing evidence. The focus of fact finding
should be to obtain credible evidence relevant to a requestor ’s eligibility for the benefit, including the
discretionary determination. If a requestor is interviewed, the of ficer should elicit information pertinent
to fact finding during the interview . As part of fact finding, of ficers should evaluate relevant information
present in the record. Depending on the benefit sought, such information might include, but is not
limited to:
Immigration history;8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 301/2618