[^ 14]  To identify a critical and emerging technology field, USCIS considers governmental, academic,
and other authoritative and instructive sources, and all other evidence submitted by the applicant. One
such governmental source is the Critical and Emerging Technologies List Update (PDF) published by
the National Science and Technology Council.
Chapter 4 - Adjudication
A. Discretion
USCIS’  authority to grant international entrepreneur parole (IEP) is discretionary and decided on a
case-by-case basis. The of ficer determines, based on the totality of the evidence, whether an
applicant’ s presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit and that the applicant
otherwise merits a favorable exercise of discretion.
In determining whether an applicant’ s presence in the United States will provide a significant public
benefit and whether a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted, USCIS considers and weighs all
evidence, including any derogatory evidence or information, such as, but not limited to, evidence of
criminal activity and national security concerns.[1]
B. Decision
1. Approvals
If the applicant establishes that the applicant’ s presence in the United States will provide a significant
public benefit, USCIS may , in its discretion, approve the application for the applicant to be paroled into
the United States for a period of up to 30 months. After approval of the application, the applicant may
appear at a port of entry to request to be paroled into the United States.[2] The process after approval
of the application is as follows:
Applicants in the United States
If the applicant is currently in the United States when USCIS approves or conditionally approves the
application, the applicant must depart the United States before appearing at a U.S. port of entry for a
final parole determination by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). A pending, approved, or
conditionally approved application does not authorize the applicant, if they are present in the United
States in nonimmigrant status, to remain in the United States beyond the expiration of their authorized
period of stay .
USCIS requires the applicant’ s biometrics to be collected and on file before approving the application.
If the applicant requests to receive their parole documentation at their U.S. mailing address, USCIS
sends a biometrics appointment notice. If the applicant requests to receive their parole documentation
at a U.S. embassy or consulate, USCIS may make a preliminary decision on the application and issue8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 831/2618