Factors Considerations
DOS Travel W arnings or Alerts, whether or not they constitute a
particularly significant factor , as set forth in Part E below .
E. Particularly Significant Factors
The preceding list identifies factors that may bear on whether a denial of admission would result in
extreme hardship. Below are factors that USCIS has determined often weigh heavily in support of
finding extreme hardship. An applicant who seeks to demonstrate the presence of one of the
enumerated circumstances must submit suf ficient reliable evidence to support the existence of such
circumstance(s) and show that the circumstance will cause extreme hardship to the qualifying relative.
The mere presence of an enumerated circumstance does not create a presumption of extreme
hardship. The ultimate determination of extreme hardship must be based on the totality of the
circumstances present in the individual case.
It is important to emphasize that the enumerated circumstances listed below are specifically
highlighted only because they are often likely to support findings of extreme hardship. Other hardships
not enumerated may also rise to the level of extreme, even if they vary significantly than those listed
below .[10]
Eligibility for an immigration benefit ordinarily must exist at the time of filing and at the time of
adjudication.[11] However , considering the nature of the particularly significant factors described below ,
the presence of one or more of these circumstances at the time of adjudication should be considered
by a USCIS of ficer even if the circumstance arose after the filing of the waiver request.
1. Qualifying Relative Previously Granted Iraqi or Afghan Special Immigrant Status, T
Nonimmigrant Status, or Asylum or Refugee Status
If a qualifying relative was previously granted Iraqi or Afghan special immigrant status,[12] T
nonimmigrant status, asylum status, or refugee status in the United States from the country of
relocation and the qualifying relative’ s status has not been revoked, those factors would often weigh
heavily in support of finding extreme hardship.[13] The existence of this circumstance normally results
in hardship greater than the common consequences denying admission, whether in cases involving
relocation or separation.
The prior decision to grant the qualifying relative status as an Iraqi or Afghan special immigrant, T
nonimmigrant, refugee, or asylee indicates the significantly heightened risk that relocation to the
country from which he or she received protection could result in retaliatory violence, persecution or
other danger to the qualifying relative. This prior assessment by USCIS would often weigh heavily in
support of finding extreme hardship in a case involving relocation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2128/2618