Chapter 2 - Record of Proceeding
A. Maintaining a Record of Proceeding
A record of proceeding is the organized, of ficial material constituting the record of any application,
petition, hearing, or other proceeding before USCIS. A record of proceeding is typically contained
within an Alien Registration File (A-File) or other agency file or electronic case management system,
or a hybrid paper and electronic file.[1]
B. A-Files
A-files are a series of records maintained on a person that document the person's immigration history .
A-files are created when an application or petition for a long-term or permanent benefit is received, or
when enforcement action is initiated.
A-files may exist in physical format, or they may be created in digital format in various electronic case
management systems, or they may be a hybrid of both paper and electronic files.[2]
A-files are stored and maintained by Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for persons born less
than 100 years ago. For persons born 100 years ago or more, A-files are transferred to and stored by
the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) .
Footnotes
[^ 1] Information contained in a record of proceeding is protected by the Privacy Act. For more
information on the Privacy Act and confidentiality provisions, see Part A, Public Services, Chapter 7,
Privacy and Confidentiality , [1 USCIS-PM A.7].
[^ 2] Digitized A-files may exist in the Enterprise Document Management System (EDMS) or ST ACKS.
Chapter 3 - Jurisdiction
A. Coordination in Cases Involving Removal Proceedings
In some cases, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) may notify USCIS of an application
or petition pending with USCIS for a person in removal proceedings that must be timely adjudicated. In
these cases, USCIS attempts to issue a decision on the relevant petition or application within 30
calendar days of receiving the necessary file(s) if the person is detained. If the person is not detained,
USCIS attempts to issue a decision within 45 calendar days of receiving the file(s). If the next hearing
in the removal case is scheduled within the 30- or 45-day time frame, USCIS typically works with ICE,8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 262/2618