the keynote role should deliver remarks between 5 and 10 minutes in length. If a scheduled guest
speaker is unable to participate, USCIS must approve any replacement speaker .
USCIS respects the privacy of applicants and may not release the names or personal information of
applicants for naturalization unless the applicant provides consent or disclosure required by law .
E. Participation by Elected Officials and Members of Congress
1. Elected Officials
USCIS must uphold the integrity of each administrative naturalization ceremony and ensure that it is a
politically neutral event. The presence of candidates for public of fice at a naturalization ceremony may
create a perception that is inconsistent with USCIS’ s obligation of neutrality . Accordingly , candidates
for public of fice, including incumbents, generally may not speak at or participate in an administrative
naturalization ceremony starting from 3 months immediately preceding a primary or general election
for of fice.
For example, if the state primary elections are on February 4, 2014, and the state general election is
November 3, 2014, a candidate for public of fice in those primary elections may not be a guest speaker
or have another formal participatory role from November 4, 2013 (3 months before the primary
election) until after February 4, 2014. A candidate for the general election may not have a participatory
role from August 3, 2014 ( months before the general election) until after November 3, 2014.[15]
The 3-month rule does not apply to the President or V ice President of the United States. However , the
3-month rule does apply to Members of Congress. In exceptional circumstances, the USCIS Of fice of
the Chief Counsel’ s Ethics Division may authorize exceptions to the 3-month rule if the candidate’ s
participation, subject to any appropriate conditions, would not unduly compromise the ceremony’ s
political neutrality and would serve the best interest of USCIS and enhance the ceremony . For any
exceptions or issues relating to the 3-month rule, field leadership should contact the Of fice of the Chief
Counsel’ s Ethics Division.
2. Members of Congress
USCIS congressional liaisons coordinate with USCIS district or field of fice leadership regarding
invitations to and requests from Members of Congress to participate in administrative naturalization
ceremonies.
Congressional liaisons and the Field Operations Directorate must provide ample notice when issuing
invitations to or responding to requests from Members of Congress to serve as guest speakers in
naturalization ceremonies. In the event a Member of Congress is unable to serve as a guest speaker
after accepting an invitation to do so, only USCIS may select an appropriate substitute.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2584/2618