Applicants who do not file a Form I-765 in conjunction with their application for T nonimmigrant status
will likely experience delays in receiving any deferred action and BFD EAD. As such, USCIS strongly
encourages all applicants to file their Form I-765 at the same time as their application for T
nonimmigrant status to ensure ef ficient processing.
5. Eligible Family Members Residing Outside of the United States
USCIS only issues deferred action and BFD EADs to eligible family members living in the United
States. As deferred action is an exercise of prosecutorial discretion to make an alien a lower priority
for removal from the United States, it is only applicable to aliens in the United States. Additionally ,
USCIS only has authority over alien employment authorization in the United States.[22]
Because the BFD EAD is only for applicants living in the United States, eligible family members who
live outside of the United States proceed to full adjudication when the principal’ s application has been
fully adjudicated.
E. Post Adjudicative Actions
1. Requests to Renew Deferred Action and BFD EAD
An applicant who requires a renewal of the grant of the BFD EAD and deferred action while their
application for T nonimmigrant status remains pending may submit a request to renew the EAD under
existing procedures. USCIS reviews the application for the BFD EAD and considers whether deferred
action and employment authorization are still warranted as a matter of discretion.
An initial BFD EAD grant does not guarantee future renewals. Principal applicants and eligible family
members are evaluated independently for each deferred action and EAD renewal to ensure that the
grant of deferred action and BFD EAD are still warranted as a matter of discretion.
2. Background and Security Checks
USCIS updates and reviews background and security checks at regular intervals during the validity
period of a principal applicant or eligible family member ’s deferred action. Additionally , USCIS retains
discretion to update background and security checks at any time when case-specific circumstances
warrant.
During those reviews, USCIS evaluates whether the applicant and eligible family members who have
been granted deferred action and BFD EADs continue to merit a favorable exercise of discretion while
their applications for T nonimmigrant status are pending with USCIS.
If USCIS determines that adverse information may impact a principal applicant’ s or eligible family
member ’s ability to maintain deferred action and a BFD EAD, USCIS places the application in line for
a full adjudication.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 701/2618