A start-up entity is a U.S. business entity that was recently formed (created within the 5 years
immediately preceding the filing date of the application), has lawfully done business during any period
of operation since its date of formation, and has substantial potential for rapid growth and job creation.
[5]
Evidence to demonstrate the company meets the definition of a start-up entity may include, but is not
limited to:
Organizational documents such as articles of incorporation, bylaws, articles of organization,
operating agreements, certificates of partnership, partnership agreements, or other evidence of
formation, as applicable;
Tax records;
Financial records; and
Similar evidence that the start-up entity has lawfully done business during any period of
operation since its date of formation.
The Business Structures  overview provides more information on the most common business forms or
structures, including information on formation, fundamental characteristics, and the tax forms
submitted to the Internal Revenue Service.
C. Qualified Investment, Award, or Grant
1. Investment Option
If the applicant is using a qualified investment to demonstrate the start-up entity’ s potential for rapid
growth and job creation, the applicant must provide evidence that a qualified investor is the source of
the investment, as well as evidence of the amount and date of the investment in the start-up entity ,
rather than in a parent, subsidiary , affiliated, or related company .[6]
Source of the Investment
If the investor is an individual, the applicant must submit evidence showing that the investor is a U.S.
citizen or lawful permanent resident (LPR) of the United States. The applicant should submit a copy of
a government-issued identity document showing the photograph, name, and date of birth of the
investor , along with evidence showing that the investor is a U.S. citizen or LPR of the United States.
The copy must clearly show the photo and identity information.
If the investor is an organization, such as a venture capital firm or other U.S. business investing in the
start-up entity , the applicant must submit evidence that the organization operates through a legal entity
organized under the laws of the United States. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to,
organizational documents such as articles of incorporation, bylaws, articles of organization, operating
agreement, certificate of partnership, or partnership agreement.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 826/2618