On the day the alien enters the United States without inspection; 
 On the day the alien violates the terms or conditions of his or her nonimmigrant status;[15] or
 On the day after the alien’ s authorized status has been violated, has expired,
been rescinded, revoked, or otherwise terminated while he or she is physically present in the
United States.[16]
Unlawful immigration status generally ends when either of the following events occur , whichever is
earlier:
The alien obtains lawful immigration status, or
 The alien departs the United States.
D. Difference between Lawful Immigration Status and Period of Authorized Stay
Lawful immigration status is distinct from being in a period of authorized stay . Periods of authorized
stay are only relevant when determining an alien’ s accrual of unlawful presence for inadmissibility
purposes.[17] Although an alien in a lawful immigration status is also in a period of authorized stay , the
opposite is not necessarily true. Those in a period of authorized stay may or may not be in a lawful
immigration status.
Officers consider the dif ference between lawful immigration status and a period of authorized
stay when determining whether an applicant is in lawful immigration status for purposes of the INA
245(c)(2)  adjustment bar .
E. Effect of Pending Application or Petition
A pending application to extend or change status ( Form I-129  or Form I-539 ), a pending adjustment
application, or a pending petition does not confer lawful immigration status on an applicant. In addition,
a pending application or petition does not automatically af ford protection against removal if the alien’ s
status expires after submission of the application. The alien may have no actual lawful status in the
United States and may be subject to removal proceedings unless and until the extension of stay
(EOS) application, change of status (COS) application, adjustment application, or petition is
approved. 
1. Extension of Stay or Change of Status
An alien may file an adjustment application after expiration of his or her nonimmigrant status while the
alien's timely-filed EOS or COS application is pending.[18] In such cases, the of ficer should defer
adjudication of the adjustment application until USCIS adjudicates the EOS or COS application so
long as there are no other grounds for denial. 
If USCIS ultimately approves the EOS or COS application, then the alien is considered to be in lawful
immigration status on the date the adjustment application is filed. If USCIS denies the EOS or COS8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1561/2618