the new envelope to USCIS.
The civil surgeon completes the following sections of a new Form I-693: the part containing the
applicant’ s information,[12] the part or parts that were deficient in the original immigration
medical examination, and the part containing the civil surgeon’ s information and certification.
The civil surgeon must include the original Form I-693 and documentation along with the newly
completed Form I-693 parts and documentation. The applicant then delivers the new envelope to
USCIS.
3. Signatures
The applicant, the civil surgeon, and any other health care provider who evaluated the applicant as
part of the immigration medical examination must sign the form, according to the form instructions, to
verify that the content of their representations is truthful.
Signature of the Civil Surgeon
The civil surgeon’ s signature must be an original signature. Stamps of the physician’ s signature or
other substitutes, or copies of the civil surgeon’ s original signature, are not acceptable (except for
blanket-designated health departments or military physicians as described below).
As outlined in the CDC’ s Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons, the civil surgeon is only permitted to
sign the Form I-693  after the civil surgeon has completed the entire immigration medical examination.
An examination is not completed until any necessary prescribed treatment for a Class A condition has
been administered.
There may be circumstances when an applicant refuses to undergo one part of the immigration
medical examination, but the civil surgeon certifies the form with a notation that part of the
examination is not complete. In these cases, the of ficer should issue an RFE to the applicant for
corrective action.
The civil surgeon might also diagnose a Class A condition for which the applicant refuses treatment.
The civil surgeon might then annotate the Class A condition but still certify and sign the form. In this
case, the of ficer should not return the form for corrective action. The of ficer should determine that the
applicant is inadmissible and ask the applicant to request a waiver , if available.[13]
Signature of the Health Department
In agreement with CDC, USCIS granted blanket civil surgeon designation to local and state health
departments in the United States. This blanket designation allows health departments to complete the
vaccination portion of Form I-693  for refugees seeking adjustment if they have a physician who meets
the professional qualifications for a civil surgeon. If a refugee only requires the vaccination
assessment, the only parts of the form that need to be completed are the applicant’ s information, the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1901/2618