Chapter 5 - Adjudication Procedures
USCIS of ficers review the evidence in the record to determine whether the evidence supports the
initiation of rescission of lawful permanent resident (LPR) status.
The central issue in rescission proceedings is whether the person was ineligible for adjustment of
status at the time LPR status was granted.
A. Notice of Intent to Rescind
Once USCIS determines that an LPR’ s status should be rescinded, USCIS issues a Notice of Intent to
Rescind (NOIR).[1] The NOIR must include why the person was not eligible for adjustment of status at
the time LPR status was granted and all of the person's rights and options during rescission
proceedings.
The NOIR must be sent by certified mail, with return receipt requested, or delivered in person.[2] It
must include the following:
The background of the case, including the basic facts pertaining to the person’ s adjustment;
The information that has arisen indicating that the person was not eligible for adjustment of
status. If the file does not establish that he or she is already aware of this information, the notice
must also inform the person of his or her right to review the information;
The various steps of the person’ s immigration history that led to his or her ineligibility for LPR
status;
Any and all pertinent information in order to give the person the opportunity to respond or rebut
the allegations;
All the grounds of inadmissibility applicable to the person and the reasons that these grounds of
inadmissibility apply , as well as ineligibility for any other preference classification;[3]
USCIS' statutory and regulatory authority to rescind the adjustment and intent to do so; and
The person’ s options should he or she decide to contest the NOIR.
If fraud of any kind was involved, the NOIR must specifically define the fraud. For example, in order to
deny or to subsequently rescind LPR status based on a marriage, the evidence must establish that the
marriage was a sham or fraudulent, or that it was legally dissolved at the time of the adjustment. A
marriage which was non-viable at the time of adjustment (for example, where the couple has
separated without chance of reconciling), but not necessarily fraudulent, may not support a rescission.
[4]
The person must be informed and permitted to rebut all allegations contained in the NOIR. A
rescission proceeding is invalid if the NOIR does not advise the person of:
The right to rebut the allegations;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1884/2618