and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322 may only be filed if the child is under 18 years of age.
An Application for Certificate of Citizenship may be filed either before or after the child turns 18 years
of age.
If the person claiming citizenship is 18 years of age or older , the person must establish that he or she
has met the eligibility requirements for U.S. citizenship and issuance of the certificate. If the
application is for a child under 18 years of age, the person applying on behalf of the child must
establish that the child has met the pertinent eligibility requirements.[4]
B. Contents of Certificate of Citizenship
1. Information about the Applicant
The Certificate of Citizenship contains information identifying the person and confirming the person's
U.S. citizenship. Specifically , the Certificate of Citizenship contains:
USCIS registration number (A-number);
Complete name;
Marital status;
Place of residence;
Country of birth;[5]
Photograph;
Signature of applicant; and
Other descriptors: sex,[6] date of birth, and height.
2. Additional Information on Certificates of Citizenship
Certificate number;
Statement by the USCIS Director indicating that the applicant has complied with all the eligibility
requirements for citizenship under the laws of the United States;
Date on which the person became a U.S. citizen;
Date of issuance; and
DHS seal and Director ’s signature as the authority under which the certificate is issued.
3. Changes to Names or Dates of Birth per Court Order
Change to Date of Birth on Certificate of Citizenship
USCIS recognizes that the dates of birth of children born abroad are not always accurately recorded in
the countries in which they were born. For example, an adopted child whose date of birth (DOB) was
unknown may have been assigned an estimated DOB, or the DOB may have been incorrectly
recorded or translated from a non-Gregorian calendar .[7]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2601/2618