3. USCIS W ebsite
USCIS collects feedback on the website by of fering visitors an optional survey . USCIS regularly
reviews the results of the survey and identifies opportunities to improve the USCIS website. USCIS
also conducts analysis and performs research such as usability testing and focus groups to make
improvements to the website. The data also informs USCIS where resources might best be used to
improve overall satisfaction.
B. Complaints[1]
1. Ways to Submit Complaints
Complaint in USCIS Office
Persons can make a complaint in a USCIS of fice by asking to speak to a supervisor . In these
situations, a supervisor must be made available within a reasonable amount of time. The supervisor
should take the complainant’ s name and information about the nature of the complaint. The supervisor
should attempt to resolve the issue before the complainant leaves the of fice.
Submit Written Complaint
Written complaints may include handwritten letters, emails, or faxes.[2]
Contact Office of Inspector General Directly[3]
Contact information for DHS Of fice of Inspector General (OIG) can be found on both the USCIS
website and on the DHS website. OIG contact information must also be displayed in a public area and
visible in every USCIS field of fice.
File Complaint with USCIS Headquarters
USCIS Headquarters (HQ) contact information is provided on USCIS’  website. If the complaint is
directed to the wrong directorate or program of fice, the complaint must be forwarded to the
appropriate HQ entity .
Ask to Speak to Contact Center Supervisor
If a caller is dissatisfied with the service received during a call to the USCIS Contact Center , the caller
may ask to speak to a supervisor .[4]
2. Complaints Received
A person should not be expected to know where to first submit a complaint or how to elevate a
complaint if they think that their issue has not been adequately addressed. Under no circumstances8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 200/2618