Criterion 7:  Evidence that the beneficiary has been employed in a critical or essential
capacity for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation.[36]
commensurate with funding rounds generally achieved for that startup’ s stage and industry , as a
positive factor regarding its distinguished reputation.
Criterion 8:  Evidence that the beneficiary has either commanded a high salary or will
command a high salary or other remuneration for services as evidenced by contracts or
other reliable evidence.[38]
USCIS determines whether the person has commanded or will command a high salary or other
remuneration.
Examples of relevant evidence may include, but are not limited to:
Tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for services;
Contract, job of fer letter , or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services;
and
Comparative wage or remuneration data for the beneficiary’ s field, such as geographical or
position-appropriate compensation surveys.
Considerations:
If the petitioner is claiming to meet this criterion, then the burden is on the petitioner to provide
appropriate evidence establishing that the beneficiary’ s compensation is high. Such evidence may
include documentation demonstrating the beneficiary is highly compensated in relation to others in
the field. Evidence regarding whether the person's compensation is high relative to that of others
working in the field may take many forms. Examples may include, but are not limited to,
geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay
above the compensation data.
The following webpages, among others, may be helpful in evaluating the relative compensation for a
given field:
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Overview of BLS W age Data by Area and
Occupation  webpage; and
The U.S. Department of Labor's Career One Stop  webpage. 
Officers should evaluate persons working outside of the United States based on the wage statistics
or comparable evidence for that locality , rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars
and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 543/2618