A person who a proper court has designated as the applicant’ s legal guardian or surrogate and
who is authorized to exercise legal authority over the applicant’ s affairs;[19] or
In the absence of a legal guardian or surrogate, a U.S. citizen spouse, parent, adult son or
daughter , or adult brother or sister , who is the primary custodial caregiver and who takes
responsibility for the applicant. 
USCIS will only recognize one designated representative in the following order of priority:[20]
Legal guardian or surrogate (highest priority)
 U.S. citizen spouse
U.S. citizen parent
U.S. citizen adult son or daughter
U.S. citizen adult brother or sister (lowest priority)
The person acting on behalf of the applicant must provide proof of legal guardianship, or
documentation to establish the familial relationship, such as a birth certificate, marriage certificate, or
adoption decree. In addition, the person must provide documentation to establish that he or she has
the primary custodial care and responsibility for the applicant (for example, income tax returns, Social
Security Administration documents, and af fidavits from other relatives). A spouse, parent, adult son or
daughter , or adult brother or sister who is not the legal guardian or surrogate must provide evidence of
U.S. citizenship.
USCIS continues an application where the family member acting as a designated representative is not
a U.S. citizen. USCIS explains to the family member why he or she is not qualified to act as a
designated representative and of fers the applicant an opportunity to bring another person who may
qualify .
Footnotes
[^ 1] See INA 337(a)(5)(A)  and INA 337(a)(5)(B) .
[^ 2] The Supreme Court has addressed the meaning of “religious training and belief” in the context of
exemptions from military service under section 6(j) of the Universal Military Training and Service
Act.” See Welsh v . United States , 398 U.S. 333 (1970) (holding that W elsh, who characterized his
beliefs as nonreligious and expressed doubt in the existence of a Supreme Being, was entitled to a
conscientious objector exemption to military service because his beliefs occupied a parallel place in
his life to that of religious convictions); United States. v . Seeger , 380 U.S. 163 (1965) (stating that the
applicable test for determining whether someone’ s belief was based on religious training and belief
was whether the belief was sincere and meaningful and “occup[ied] in the life of its possessor a place
parallel to that filled by the God of those admittedly qualifying for the exemption”). See INA
337(a)  which contains virtually the same language regarding religious training and belief as was
addressed by the Supreme Court in Welsh and Seeger .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2576/2618