STEM OPT
A student may apply for a 24-month STEM OPT  extension up to 90 days before the expiration of the
student’ s current post-completion OPT  EAD and no more than 60 days after their DSO enters the
STEM OPT  recommendation into SEVIS.
A student who has timely and properly filed a Form I-765  for the 24-month STEM OPT  extension may
continue working until the date of the USCIS written decision on the current Form I-765 or for up to
180 days after the student’ s current post-completion OPT  expires, whichever is earlier .[64]
If USCIS approves the application, the student may continue working in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the new EAD. If the extension is denied and the student’ s post-completion OPT  EAD
is expired, employment authorization is immediately terminated and the student’ s status ends 60 days
from the date of denial. If the extension is denied and the student’ s post-completion OPT  EAD is
unexpired, the student will remain employment authorized until the expiration date of the EAD.
However , if the application was denied because the student failed to maintain F-1 status, the student
must immediately depart the United States.
D. F-1 “Cap-gap” Extension
1. Automatic “Cap-gap” Extension
An F-1 student who is the beneficiary of an H-1B[65] petition subject to the numerical limitations
identified in INA 214(g)(1)(A)[66] and who requests a change of status is automatically granted an
extension of F-1 status and employment authorization if:
The F-1 student is currently authorized for OPT  employment;[67]
The F-1 student has not violated the terms and conditions of the student’ s nonimmigrant status;
[68]
The H-1B petition was timely filed;[69] and
The H-1B petition requested an H-1B employment start date of October 1 of the following fiscal
year.[70]
The “cap-gap” period starts when an F-1 student’ s status and employment authorization expires and,
unless terminated, ends on October 1, the start date of the H-1B cap-subject petition filed on their
behalf.
Cap-gap occurs because an employer may not file, and USCIS may not accept, a cap subject H-1B
petition submitted more than 6 months in advance of the date of actual need for the beneficiary’ s
services or training. As a result, the earliest date that an employer can file an H-1B cap-subject petition
is April 1 for the following fiscal year , which starts October 1. If USCIS approves the H-1B petition and
the accompanying change of status request, the earliest date that the student may start the approved8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 405/2618