beneficiary bears the burden to establish that the beneficiary is clearly and beyond a doubt entitled to
be admitted and is not inadmissible under Section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).
The clearly and beyond doubt standard is higher than the preponderance of the evidence standard.
This means that evidence must be stronger and more persuasive to meet the clearly and beyond
doubt standard than the evidence necessary to satisfy the lower preponderance of evidence standard.
[11] If the petitioner has not met the required standard, the of ficer may request additional evidence,
issue a Notice of Intent to Deny , or deny the case.[12]
D. Evidence
To meet the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence, the petitioner must submit evidence
of the qualifying spouse or child relationship.[13] The regulations provide that the petitioner should
submit primary documentation of the qualifying relationship where possible, and the regulations also
allow for USCIS to consider secondary evidence, af fidavits, and credible oral testimony if civilly issued
documents are not available to the petitioner .[14]
1. Petitions for a Spouse
The petitioner should list the spouse on the petitioner ’s application for refugee or asylum status. While
the lack of the claimed spouse’ s information on those applications may raise doubts regarding the
claimed relationship, the petitioner ’s failure to list a spouse on these applications is not a bar to
approving the petition for the spouse beneficiary . Officers should elicit testimony and consider any
other relevant evidence as to whether a qualifying relationship exists.
The petitioner may still meet their burden of demonstrating eligibility by the preponderance of the
evidence where there is a reasonable explanation for not including the spouse on the previously filed
application, or where the absence of the spouse’ s name on the form was factually accurate at the time
of filing.
Primary evidence for a petitioning spouse is generally a civilly issued marriage certificate from the
country where the marriage occurred and, if applicable, evidence of the legal termination of previous
marriages, such as a divorce or death certificate.[15] The petitioner should also submit evidence of any
legal name change of either spouse, if applicable.
2. Petitions for Children
The petitioner should generally have listed their children on the petitioner ’s application for refugee or
asylum status. While the lack of the claimed child’ s information on those applications may raise doubts
regarding the claimed relationship, the petitioner ’s failure to list a child on these applications is not a
bar to approving the petition for the child beneficiary . Officers should elicit testimony and consider any
other relevant evidence as to whether a qualifying relationship exists.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 856/2618