If there is insuf ficient information to determine whether a breach occurred, or whether the cancellation
requirements are met, USCIS may request additional information from the alien or the obligor .
3. Special Considerations Related to Permanent Departure
USCIS must approve the request to cancel the public charge bond if the alien has not breached the
public charge bond and permanently departed the United States.[18]
An alien is considered to have permanently departed if the alien has:
Lost or abandoned LPR status, whether involuntarily by operation of law or voluntarily; and
Is physically outside the United States.
An alien must establish that both elements have been met before USCIS cancels the bond.
For these purposes, an alien is deemed to have involuntarily lost LPR status by operation of law only if
the alien lost their status:
In removal proceedings with the entry of a final order of removal; or
Through rescission of adjustment of status.
If an alien loses their LPR status through operation of law , the alien would be required to provide
evidence of the loss of status by submitting evidence of the of ficial determination of loss of LPR status
before USCIS can cancel the bond.
Generally , determining whether an alien has abandoned their LPR status voluntarily is fact specific
and courts consider factors such as the length of an alien’ s absence from the United States, family
and employment ties, property holdings, residence, and the alien’ s intent or actions.[19] Any alien may
intentionally relinquish LPR status through their voluntary actions, such as by submitting a declaration
of intent to abandon LPR status. Neither the Immigration and Nationality Act nor DHS regulations
direct how aliens may formally inform the U.S. government of their abandoning their LPR status.
To simplify the process, USCIS created the Record of Abandonment of Lawful Permanent Resident
Status ( Form I-407 ) as a means by which an alien may formally record that they have abandoned LPR
status. The purpose of the form is to create a record and to ensure that the alien acts voluntarily and
willingly , and is informed of the right to a hearing before an immigration judge and has knowingly ,
willingly , and af firmatively waived that right.
An alien may demonstrate voluntary relinquishment of the LPR status for purposes of bond
cancellation by showing proof that they submitted Form I-407 to the U.S. government from outside the
United States.
4. Decision8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2048/2618