precluded from establishing GMC due to the commission of an unlawful act.[102] Once the failure to
file tax returns or pay taxes and the relevant law has been identified, the of ficer must assess on a
case-by-case basis whether the applicant is ineligible for naturalization under the unlawful acts
provision. If the of ficer determines that the unlawful conduct violates the standards of an average
member of the community , the applicant will not be able to establish GMC. However , recognizing the
complexities of filing taxes, there may be instances where the of ficer may determine that the
applicant’ s conduct regarding his or her tax return or tax payment did not violate the standards of an
average member of the community , or that the applicant established extenuating circumstances. In
such cases, the applicant may establish GMC by showing that he or she has corrected all
inconsistencies or errors. An example of when an applicant may not be prevented from establishing
GMC despite filing taxes incorrectly could be where the applicant is divorced and mistakenly claimed a
child as a dependent on his or her tax return for a tax year that the former spouse was entitled to claim
the child as a dependent based on the terms of the divorce.
Examples of corrections of such inconsistencies or errors might include a letter from the tax authority
indicating that:
The applicant has filed the appropriate forms and returns; and
The applicant has paid the required taxes, or has made arrangements for payment and is doing
so in accordance with the pertinent tax authority .
M. Unlawful Acts: False Claim to U.S. Citizenship, Unlawful V oter Registration, and
Unlawful V oting
An applicant may fail to show GMC if he or she committed or was convicted or imprisoned for any of
the following unlawful acts during the statutory period:[103]
Knowingly making any false statement or claim that he or she is a citizen of the United States in
order to register to vote or to vote in any federal, state, or local election (including an initiative,
recall, or referendum);[104]
Knowingly making any false statement or claim that he or she is or has been a U.S. citizen or
national of the United States, with the intent to obtain on behalf of himself or herself, or any other
person, any federal or state benefit or service, or to engage unlawfully in employment in the
United States;[105]
Registering to vote in violation of any state or local law;[106] or
Voting in a federal election while the applicant was an alien.[107]
1. False Claims to U.S. Citizenship
An applicant commits an unlawful act if he or she knowingly makes any false statement or claim that
he or she is or has been a U.S. citizen or national of the United States, with the intent to obtain on8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2417/2618