If the applicant fails to provide such evidence, the of ficer issues a Request for Evidence (RFE),
providing the applicant an opportunity to submit the requested documentation or information. If the
applicant fails to respond to the RFE or does not provide the requested documentation or information,
the of ficer denies the waiver for failure to establish exceptional hardship.
While no single factor is normally determinative with exceptional hardship findings, USCIS generally
considers the following when adjudicating the foreign residence requirement waiver application:
Whether the anxiety , loneliness, and altered financial circumstances to the qualifying family
member is greater than normal hardship;[10]
The country conditions of the country of foreign residence;[11]
Medical conditions of the qualifying family member or members where treatment in the country
of foreign residence is insuf ficient or where the medical problems would be worse in the country
of foreign residence than in the United States;[12] and
Other relevant evidence submitted by the applicant.[13]
Such evidence could include DOS travel alerts, medical diagnosis and prognosis from physicians, and
comprehensive bank records. In addition, USCIS of ficers may consult with DOS-WRD in cases where
the DOS-WRD has better access to information necessary for the adjudication, or if DOS-WRD has
made a recommendation that appears to be based upon incomplete or inaccurate information (for
example, where an applicant failed to mention previously participating in a J-1 program funded by the
government).
2. Adjudication
If the evidence establishes a prima facie[14] case of exceptional hardship, of ficers must notify the
DOS-WRD of USCIS’  determination, so that DOS-WRD can make a recommendation based on the
program, policy , and foreign relations considerations. USCIS may not approve the foreign residence
requirement waiver application without a favorable recommendation from DOS-WRD.
Cases that USCIS sends to DOS-WRD for recommendation must include:
A completed Request for W aiver Review Division Recommendation (Form I-613);
A copy of the waiver application; and
Copies of supporting documentation, if applicable.
The dependent family members of a principal applicant (J-1) who have been in J-2 status during a
time when the principal applicant was subject to the foreign residence requirement must be included
on the Form I-613 sent to DOS-WRD. Of ficers should review the Arrival/Departure Record ( Form I-94 )
for each dependent family member to make that determination. Where the application includes such
dependent family members, of ficers should designate USCIS as the interested agency recommending
their inclusion in the waiver request on Form I-613.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 353/2618