change from consular processing to adjustment of status, USCIS works with the NVC to return the
petition for adjustment of status processing.
2. Denials
Generally , USCIS may only deny a family-based immigrant visa petition if the petitioner fails to
establish status as a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or LPR, or the petitioner fails to establish a qualifying
relationship to the alien beneficiary .[25]
USCIS may deny without first issuing a Request for Evidence (RFE) or Notice of Intent to Deny
(NOID) if there is no legal basis for approval and no additional information could establish a legal basis
for approval (for example, a petition submitted on behalf of an alien relative who does not fall under a
category provided for in the Immigration and Nationality Act, such as a grandparent).[26]
If USCIS denies a petition, USCIS explains in writing the specific reasons for the denial, and the right
to appeal if applicable.
3. Removable Aliens
If USCIS determines the alien beneficiary is removeable and amenable to removal from the United
States USCIS may issue a Notice to Appear (NT A) placing the beneficiary in removal proceedings.
Petitioners and alien beneficiaries should be aware that a family-based petition accords no
immigration status nor does it bar removal.
D. Post Decision Actions
A petitioner may withdraw an approved family-based immigrant petition up until the beneficiary is
admitted or granted adjustment of status based on the approved immigrant petition.[27]
An approved petition may be automatically revoked before the alien beneficiary’ s journey to the United
States commences or , if the alien beneficiary or self-petitioner is an applicant for adjustment of status,
before the decision on the beneficiary’ s adjustment application becomes final.[28] An approved petition
may also be revoked upon written notice to the petitioner if certain conditions occur or are discovered.
[29]
Unless denied for abandonment or withdrawal,[30] the petitioner may appeal a family-based immigrant
petition that was denied or revoked upon notice to the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), or USCIS
may review the denied or revoked petition following a motion to reopen or reconsider .
1. Withdrawal of Petition
A petitioner may voluntarily withdraw a family-based petition before USCIS issues a decision or after
USCIS has approved the petition if the beneficiary has not yet adjusted status or been admitted as an8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1076/2618