Even if the beneficiary is to be stationed primarily outside the petitioning organization, that fact alone
does not establish ineligibility for L  classification. For the ground of ineligibility to apply , control and
supervision of the beneficiary at the non-af filiated worksite must be principally by the unaf filiated
employer . Officers should use the common dictionary meaning of the term principally . The adjective
principal means "most important, consequential, or influential."[12]
Therefore, even if the non-af filiated entity exercises some control or supervision over the work
performed, if such control and supervision lie first and foremost within the petitioning organization, and
the petitioning organization retains ultimate authority over the worker , the ground of ineligibility does
not apply .
The unaf filiated employer may provide input, feedback, or guidance as to their needs and goals, and
may even direct specific tasks and activities. So long as the ultimate authority over the L-1 worker ’s
daily duties remains within the petitioning organization, however , the fact that there may be some
intervening third-party supervision or input between the worker and the petitioning organization does
not render the worker ineligible for L-1B classification.
A beneficiary is ineligible for L  classification if the placement at the unaf filiated worksite is essentially
an arrangement to provide labor for hire for the unaf filiated employer rather than a placement in
connection with the provision of a product or service for which specialized knowledge specific to the
petitioning employer is necessary .
Whether an arrangement is essentially to provide labor for hire is inherently a factual inquiry . Officers
therefore must look at all aspects of the activity or activities in which the beneficiary will be engaged
away from the petitioner ’s worksite. In general, if the of f-site activity or activities require specialized
knowledge of the petitioner ’s product or services, if such knowledge bears a reasonable relationship to
the performance of the of f-site activities, the activities are not prohibited.
For example, a beneficiary would be ineligible for L  classification if a petitioner is essentially in the
business of placing beneficiaries with various unaf filiated companies, irrespective of the beneficiary’ s
specialized knowledge of the petitioner ’s particular product or service, where the of f-site activities to
be performed do not require specialized knowledge specific to the worker placement industry .
On the other hand, if the petitioner is primarily engaged in providing a specialized service, and
typically sends its specialized knowledge personnel on projects located on the work site of its
unaffiliated clients to perform such services, then, assuming the beneficiary remains under the
principal control and supervision of the petitioning employer , and otherwise meets the basic
requirements for L  classification, the beneficiary would not be subject to the bar . In such cases, the
petitioning employer must show they retain ultimate authority over the L-1B beneficiary , and the L-1B
beneficiary must provide a product or service to the of fsite employer for which specialized knowledge
specific to the petitioner is necessary .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 483/2618