abuse took place only after they turned 21, then they were not eligible to file the self-petition on the
day before they turned 21 years old.
In addition to meeting all of the eligibility requirements as of the day before the self-petitioner turned
21 years old, the abuse must have been “one central reason” for the self-petitioner ’s delay in filing.[53]
The battery or extreme cruelty is not required to be the sole reason for the delay in filing, but the
connection between the battery or extreme cruelty and the delay in filing must be more than
tangential.
An example where a self-petitioner could potentially meet this requirement may be that the abuse took
place so near in time to the self-petitioner turning 21 years old that there was insuf ficient time to file
the self-petition. Another example is that the abuse was so traumatic that the self-petitioner was
mentally or physically incapable of filing a self-petition prior to turning 21 years old. These are only
hypothetical examples; the abuse must be identifiable as one central reason for the delay .
If self-petitioners are eligible to file after turning 21 years old, USCIS  treats them as if the self-petition
had been filed on the day before they turned 21 years old. If USCIS approves the self-petition,
however , the self-petitioner ’s continued eligibility and subsequent classification for visa issuance or
adjustment of status is governed by the Child Status Protection Act (CSP A) or the V ictims of
Trafficking and V iolence Protection Act of 2000 (VTVP A), whichever is appropriate.[54]
Evidence
Self-petitioners must submit evidence that they were eligible to file the self-petition before they turned
21 years old and that the abuse was one central reason for the delay . USCIS considers the totality of
the circumstances leading to the delay in filing and the full history of battery or extreme cruelty in the
case.
Examples of evidence that may demonstrate that the self-petitioner ’s abuse was one central reason
for the delay may include but are not limited to:
Reports or af fidavits detailing incidents of abuse that occurred prior to the self-petitioner turning
21 years old from police, judges, court of ficials, medical personnel, counselors, social workers or
other social service agency personnel, or school of ficials;
Evidence that the self-petitioner sought refuge at a shelter because of the abuse;
A personal statement describing the battery or extreme cruelty that occurred prior to the self-
petitioner turning 21 years old;
An explanation for how the abuse was one central reason for the delay in filing the self-petition;
or
Any other credible evidence.
2. Self-Petitioning Child or Derivative T urns 21 Years Old After the Self-Petition is Filed8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 796/2618