Civil surgeons must perform such examinations according to the Technical Instructions for the Medical
Examination of Aliens in the United States, issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC), an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
The civil surgeon must also record the results of the immigration medical examination on the Report of
Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ) according to the form
instructions. Applicants submit the form to USCIS as part of their immigration benefits application, if
required. USCIS reviews the form to determine whether the applicant is inadmissible based on health-
related grounds.
C. Professional Qualifications
Only licensed physicians with at least four years of professional experience may be designated as civil
surgeons.[8] USCIS interprets “not less than four years’  professional experience” to require four years
of professional practice after completion of training. Based on consultations with CDC, USCIS has
determined that internships and residences do not count toward the four-year professional experience
because they are both part of a physician’ s training.[9] Even if one is already licensed as a physician,
the four-year period of professional practice only begins when the post-graduate training ends. 
Therefore, to be eligible for civil surgeon designation, the physician must meet all of the following
requirements: 
Be either a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or a Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.); 
Be licensed to practice medicine without restrictions in the state in which he or she seeks to
perform immigration medical examinations; and 
Have the requisite four years of professional experience. 
Registered nurses, nurse practitioners, medical technicians, physical therapists, physician assistants,
chiropractors, podiatrists, and other healthcare workers who are not licensed as physicians (M.D. or
D.O.) may not be designated or function as civil surgeons. 
D. Responsibilities of Designated Civil Surgeons
Civil surgeon designation comes with a number of responsibilities. Physicians who fail to meet their
responsibilities as a civil surgeon may have their designation revoked by USCIS.[10]
Civil surgeons’  responsibilities include:[11]
Completing medical examinations according to HHS regulations and CDC requirements, such as
the Technical Instructions for the Medical Examination of Aliens in the United States (T echnical
Instructions) and any updates posted on CDC’ s website;[12]
Making referrals for treatment and filing case reports, as required by the Technical Instructions;
Reporting the results of the immigration medical examination on Form I-693  accurately;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1933/2618