The following factors are among the others USCIS may consider in its totality of the circumstances
analysis:
The petitioner ’s gross sales and gross revenues;
The total wages paid to the petitioner ’s current employees during the most recent fiscal years;
Media accounts about the petitioner ’s business;
The number of years the petitioner has been doing business;
The historical growth of the petitioner ’s business;
Any recent changes that may have disrupted or interrupted its business (for example,
reorganization, merger , bankruptcy);
The petitioner ’s number of employees;
The occurrence of any uncharacteristic business expenditures or losses from which the
petitioner has since recovered (for example, extensive fire or flood damage); and
The petitioner ’s overall reputation within its industry .
In some cases, such as when a petitioner has one unprofitable year despite a history of profitability ,
these factors may establish a petitioner ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage despite a shortfall in net
income or net current assets. As another example, USCIS may also take into account that the
beneficiary is replacing a former employee or outsourced service or that an of ficer of the petitioning
employer is willing and able to forego compensation specifically to cover the wage.
D. Additional Ability to Pay Issues
1. Prorating the Proffered W age in the Priority Date Year
The petitioner may request that the prof fered wage be prorated for the applicable portion of the priority
date year . In addressing such a request, USCIS does not consider 12 months of net income towards
its ability to pay the prof fered wage for a period of less than 12 months. In this scenario, USCIS may
prorate the prof fered wage if the record contains evidence of net income or payment of the
beneficiary’ s wages specifically covering the portion of the year that occurred after the priority date, or
both. USCIS may also consider the petitioner ’s net current assets at the end of the priority date year
towards the prorated wage.[24]
Example
The priority date is July 1, 2021. The annual prof fered wage is $100,000. The petitioner established
that it paid the beneficiary wages between July 1, 2021 and December 31, 2021 in the amount of
$15,000. The petitioner also documented that its net income between July 1, 2021 and December 31,
2021 is $25,000. The net current assets shown on balance sheet of the petitioner ’s 2021 federal tax
return is $40,000.
Based on the above facts, the prorated wage is $50,000. If the petitioner requests that USCIS
consider the prorated wage, it would have to show its ability to pay the prorated wage deficiency of8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1109/2618