C. Adjudication Steps
Vaccination Requirement: Adjudication Steps
Step
1Determine which vaccination(s) were age appropriate for the applicant to receive based on
the applicant’ s age on the date the medical exam was completed.[12]
Step
2Verify that any vaccine that was required (age appropriate)[13] as of the date of the medical
exam is marked as:
Received by the applicant; or
“Not medically appropriate” because of contraindication, inappropriate time interval, or
not flu season.
Step
3If the required (age appropriate) vaccinations were not received or not marked as “not
medically appropriate” as of the date the medical exam was completed, determine whether
the missing vaccinations would still be required as of the date of adjudication.
Vaccinations missing at the time of the medical exam may no longer be required as of the
date of adjudication if, for example, the applicant has aged out, or it is not the flu season, or
a vaccine is no longer required by law .
Step
4If the missing vaccinations are no longer required as of the date of the adjudication, the
vaccination requirements have been met. 
Step
5If the missing vaccinations would still be required, the of ficer should send an RFE for an
updated Form I-693  showing the applicant has received those vaccinations.
D. Vaccination Chart
USCIS of ficers should consult the chart in the Vaccination Technical Instructions  to determine
inadmissibility based on failure to meet the vaccination requirements. 
E. Special V accination Considerations
Additionally , officers should pay special attention to the following developments.
1. COVID-19 V accination
On January 22, 2025, USCIS announced that as of January 20, 2025, of ficers would no longer issue
any RFEs or Notices of Intent to Deny (NOIDs), or deny adjustment of status applications, based on
an applicant’ s failure to submit documentation of having received the COVID-19 vaccination. On
March 1 1, 2025, CDC updated their Technical Instructions  for Civil Surgeons to remove the COVID-198/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1922/2618