Various circumstances may af fect whether USCIS considers a person to be residing in or physically
present in the United States, and therefore whether U.S. citizens may transmit citizenship to their
children.
U.S. Citizens who were Born, But Did Not Reside, in the United States
A U.S. citizen may have automatically acquired U.S. citizenship based on birth in the United States,
[38] but never actually resided in the United States. This U.S. citizen will not have established
residence in the United States, and may be unable to transmit U.S. citizenship to his or her own
children.
For example, if the U.S. citizen, still having never resided in the United States, subsequently marries
another U.S. citizen who never resided in the United States, and they give birth to a child outside the
United States, the child will not acquire citizenship at birth under INA  301(c) because neither U.S.
citizen parent can show the requisite residence in the United States. However , if the U.S. citizen
parent had returned to the United States after his or her birth and established residence before giving
birth to the child outside the United States, then he or she may be able to meet the residence
requirement based on that period of residence and transmit U.S. citizenship to his or her children.
Children of Armed Forces Members or U.S. Government Employees (or their Spouses)
Certain children of U.S. armed forces members or U.S. government employees (or their spouses) who
are residing outside the United States are exempt from the requirement to be residing in the United
States for purposes of acquiring citizenship under INA  320.[39]
Commuters and T emporary V isits to the United States
Residence is more than a temporary presence or a visit to the United States. Therefore, temporary
presences and visits are insuf ficient to establish residence for the purposes of transmitting citizenship.
For example, someone who resides along the border in Mexico or Canada, but works each day in the
United States, cannot use his or her workplace to establish a residence.
Vacations or brief stays in the United States do not qualify as residence in the United States. However ,
attendance at school, college, or university in the United States for an extended period of time may be
considered as residence in the United States depending upon the totality of the circumstances.[40]
Owning or Renting Property
A person does not need to own or rent property in the United States in order to establish residence. In
addition, owning or renting property outside of the United States does not automatically establish lack
of residence in the United States. Owning and renting property in the United States may help to
establish residence in the United States if the person also establishes that he or she actually lived in8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2464/2618