$35,000, which is the dif ference between the prorated wage and the wages paid by the petitioner to
the beneficiary during the prorated period from July 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. Its net income of
$25,000 during the prorated period is insuf ficient to pay the wage deficiency . USCIS does not combine
prorated net income with net current assets. However , on December 31, 2021, the petitioner had
sufficient net current assets to pay the prorated wage deficiency . USCIS does not prorate net current
assets. Therefore, the petitioner in this example could establish its ability to pay the prorated wage
deficiency of $35,000 for the priority date year based on its net current assets of $40,000.
2. Multiple Beneficiaries
If the petitioner has filed Form I-140  petitions on behalf of other beneficiaries, there may be a question
as to whether the petitioner can meet the ability to pay obligation on all petitions. However , this
analysis may not be necessary if the petitioner has paid the beneficiary of the petition a salary equal to
or greater than the prof fered wage since the priority date, and submitted the required regulatory
evidence.[25] Conversely , if the petitioner cannot demonstrate an ability to pay the beneficiary of the
petition under review , the of ficer does not need to consider the issue of an ability to pay multiple
beneficiaries.
In cases with multiple Form I-140 beneficiaries, where a petitioner with 100 or more employees
provides a letter from a financial of ficer,[26] the of ficer balances the evidence in the record to
determine whether to use discretion to accept the letter as evidence of a petitioner ’s ability to pay the
proffered wages.
In cases necessitating analysis of the ability to pay multiple beneficiaries, the petitioner must
demonstrate its ability to pay the prof fered wages for each beneficiary for each year starting from the
priority date of the petition under review . However , USCIS does not consider the petitioner ’s ability to
pay the prof fered wage of another Form I-140 beneficiary:
After the other beneficiary obtains lawful permanent residence;
If the employer withdrew the Form I-140  petition filed on behalf of the other beneficiary;
If USCIS denied or revoked the approval of the Form I-140 petition filed on behalf of the other
beneficiary without a pending appeal or motion; or
Before the priority date of the Form I-140 petition filed on behalf of the other beneficiary .
The analysis to determine the ability to pay the combined wages is the same as that for a single
beneficiary , including taking into account wages paid to any of the beneficiaries.
Evidence to support a petitioner ’s ability to pay the prof fered wage for multiple beneficiaries may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
A list of all receipt numbers for the Form I-140  petitions that were pending, or approved as of, or
filed after , the priority date of the current petition;
The name of each beneficiary;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1110/2618