Designation ( Form I-910 ) with the required evidence and filing fee. 
Chapter 3 - Blanket Civil Surgeon Designation
A. Blanket Designation of State and Local Health Departments[1]
1. Overview
USCIS has the authority to designate either individual physicians or members of a specified class of
physicians as civil surgeons, provided they meet the legal requirements.[2] Through policy and in
agreement with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), USCIS designated all state
and local health departments as civil surgeons. Health departments may only use this blanket civil
surgeon designation to complete the vaccination assessments for refugees seeking adjustment of
status.[3]
This blanket designation eases the dif ficulties encountered by refugee adjustment applicants in
complying with the vaccination requirement. It also relieves USCIS of the need to maintain lists of
health departments and the names of individual physicians at these health departments.
2. Eligible Physicians
Participation in this blanket civil surgeon designation is entirely voluntary and at the discretion of each
health department. Health departments may only participate under this blanket designation if they
have physicians authorized to provide medical services who meet the professional qualifications of a
civil surgeon[4] since only these qualifying physicians may certify the vaccination assessment for
refugees seeking adjustment of status. This includes volunteer physicians at state and local health
departments. 
Eligible physicians at health departments may , but are not required to, personally perform the
vaccination assessment. Nurses or other medical professionals may perform the vaccination
assessment and complete the vaccination record in the Report of Immigration Medical Examination
and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ) as long as the health department physician reviews and certifies
the Form I-693 .
Neither health departments nor eligible physicians at health departments need to obtain approval from
USCIS prior to performing the vaccination component of immigration medical examinations as
specified in the next section. Blanket designated civil surgeons are exempt from both application and
fee requirements for civil surgeon designation.
However , health departments and eligible physicians must review and be familiar with the Technical
Instructions for the vaccination requirements before they can begin performing vaccination8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1940/2618