Part H - Emergencies or Unforeseen Circumstances
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
Whether occurring in the United States or abroad, emergencies or unforeseen circumstances, such as
natural disasters (for example, hurricanes, wildfires, or severe weather), national emergencies (for
example, public health emergencies), or other circumstances (for example, terrorist attacks, mass
shootings, system outages, or cyber attacks), may present unanticipated challenges to immigration
benefit requestors.
Generally , USCIS may , in its discretion, implement certain flexibilities to assist benefit requestors
during and after these events on a case-by-case basis. The degree to which USCIS may exercise
discretion depends on the specific circumstances and applicable legal authorities. USCIS may also
publicly announce the flexibilities and may issue guidance to ensure consistent application of these
flexibilities.
B. Background
During or after an emergency or unforeseen circumstances, benefit requestors may experience
various setbacks, including dif ficulties in obtaining documentation demonstrating eligibility for certain
immigration benefits, being unable to receive notification of (or respond in a timely manner to) a
USCIS-issued request or notice related to a pending benefit request, failing to appear for a scheduled
appointment, or being unable to depart the United States before their authorized period of stay
expires.
Benefit requestors may also experience unanticipated economic hardship, endure prolonged family
separation, find that their USCIS-issued documents are damaged or destroyed, or find that they need
to travel outside the United States because of the emergency or unforeseen circumstances.
Emergencies or unforeseen circumstances may also af fect the operations of USCIS of fices.[1] USCIS
management of ficials may consider the operational requirements for implementing the flexibilities
described in this part as they develop contingency plans in response to emergencies.
In response to certain emergencies or unforeseen circumstances, USCIS informs the public of the
availability of various flexibilities.[2] If a benefit requestor seeks accommodation from USCIS based on
the flexibilities referenced in this part, of ficers must follow corresponding guidance, including any
guidance from USCIS headquarters related to the emergency or unforeseen circumstances.
C. Legal Authorities8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 319/2618