plays musical selections during ceremonies, naturalization applicants are not required to stand or sing.
D. Guest Speakers
USCIS welcomes distinguished community members who are U.S. citizens by birth or naturalization to
participate as guest speakers in administrative naturalization ceremonies. A guest speaker may be a:
Civic leader;
 Government leader;
Military leader;
Member of Congress;
Judge;
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) of ficial; or
A person whom USCIS deems appropriate for the occasion.
Local USCIS field leadership must carefully review and select guest speakers based on their
relevance to the occasion, with particular focus on their outstanding achievements, contributions to the
nation or their community , personal experience, or notable activities as a citizen of the United States.
USCIS field leadership must review the qualifications of any potential guest speaker who is not a DHS
employee, and approve their role in the program before they speak at an administrative naturalization
ceremony .[13] If USCIS headquarters selects a guest speaker for a USCIS field of fice’s administrative
naturalization ceremony , headquarters reviews the person’ s qualifications before making the
recommendation.
It is the responsibility of field leadership of the USCIS of fice conducting the administrative
naturalization ceremony to preserve the importance, dignity , and significance of the occasion. After
selecting and scheduling a guest speaker , the local field leadership must send the speaker a written
notice, which describes USCIS’ s expectations regarding the appropriate length and content of
remarks. USCIS must advise speakers that appropriate remarks focus on:
Importance of U.S. citizenship;
New privileges (such as the ability to travel with a U.S. passport, apply for a position in the
federal government, and vote in federal elections);
Responsibilities of U.S. citizenship (such as voting and serving on a jury when requested);
Civic principles within the U.S. government;
Civic participation in the local community;
Importance of swearing allegiance to the United States; or
Theme of the ceremony .
Inappropriate remarks, including political (partisan or otherwise), religious, or commercial statements,
are not permitted.[14] Out of respect for the candidates and other attendees, guest speakers serving in8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2583/2618