To establish eligibility for an extension of status due to exceptional circumstances, applicants should
provide evidence showing how the exceptional circumstances necessitate the continuance of T
nonimmigrant status.
While an applicant can file more than one extension of status, if the extension of status is based on
the same evidence as a prior request, the mere fact that USCIS previously found the circumstance to
be exceptional does not mean that USCIS will come to the same conclusion a second time. USCIS
considers every request on a case-by-case basis and based on the evidence presented with the
request.
The need to accrue continuous physical presence to be eligible to adjust status is not generally
considered an exceptional circumstance warranting an extension of status. However , USCIS
acknowledges that some T-1 nonimmigrants may have been unable to return to the United States due
to circumstances outside their control (such as the COVID-19 pandemic or consular processing
delays). USCIS may consider delays in consular processing for derivatives to be an exceptional
circumstance that justifies extending the principal’ s T nonimmigrant status, even if it appears the
principal will not be able to adjust status under INA 245(l) .
E. Considerations for Family Members
To be eligible to apply for adjustment of status, a family member who is a derivative T nonimmigrant
must continue to hold T nonimmigrant status at the time of filing the application for adjustment of
status.[14] To facilitate ef ficient processing, USCIS encourages derivative T nonimmigrants to file for
adjustment of status concurrently with the principal T nonimmigrant. A derivative T nonimmigrant’ s
status is automatically extended when the derivative properly files for adjustment of status.
Once a principal T nonimmigrant is no longer a T nonimmigrant, whether due to adjustment of status
to lawful permanent residence, change to another nonimmigrant status, or expiration of T
nonimmigrant status, derivative T nonimmigrants are no longer eligible for initial admission into the
United States on a T visa.[15]
Where the approved derivative is awaiting initial issuance of a T visa by a consulate and the principal’ s
nonimmigrant status is soon to expire, USCIS strongly encourages the principal to seek an extension
of status based on exceptional circumstances, following the instructions to the Form I ‑ 539, and then
wait for the derivatives to be admitted to the United States as T derivatives before filing an adjustment
application.
This prevents the derivative from being ineligible for initial admission to the United States on a
derivative T visa due to the expiration of the principal’ s T nonimmigrant status or adjustment of status
to lawful permanent residence. Once the principal T-1 nonimmigrant adjusts status, the derivative
nonimmigrant can no longer be initially admitted as a T nonimmigrant.
Footnotes8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 713/2618