3. Evidence
The applicant’ s objection to the vaccination requirement on account of religious belief or
moral conviction may be established through the applicant’ s sworn statement. In this statement, the
applicant should state the exact nature of those religious beliefs or moral convictions and establish
how such beliefs would be violated or compromised by complying with the vaccination requirements. 
Additional corroborating evidence supporting the background for the religious belief or
moral conviction, if available and credible, should also be submitted by the applicant and considered
by the of ficer. For example, regular participation in a congregation can be established by submitting
affidavits from other members in the congregation, or evidence of regular volunteer work. 
The of ficer should consider all evidence submitted by the applicant.
4. Discretion
As is generally the case for waivers, a waiver of the vaccination requirement requires an of ficer to
consider whether the grant of the waiver is warranted as a matter of discretion. 
A favorable exercise of discretion is generally warranted if the applicant establishes that he or
she objects to the vaccination requirement on account of religious beliefs or moral convictions. 
F. Step-by-Step Checklist
A blanket waiver may be available to the applicant. The of ficer should check whether the applicant is
eligible for a blanket waiver before proceeding to this checklist.  
Adjudication V accination Requirement W aiver Based on Religious Beliefs or Moral Convictions
Step If YES … If NO …
Step 1:  Review the evidence for any
indication that the applicant opposes
the vaccination requirement based
on religious beliefs or
moral convictions.Explain (during the interview or
through an RFE) the waiver
requirements and request that
the applicant file a waiver , if he
or she has not already done so.
Proceed to Step 3.RFE or interview to
ascertain reasons why
vaccines were not given.
Proceed to Step 2A.
Step 2A:  Did the applicant oppose
the vaccines?Explain to the applicant (at
interview or through RFE) the
waiver requirements and request
that the applicant file a waiver if
not already done so. Proceed
to Step 3.Proceed to Step 2B.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2157/2618