Accommodation Explanation
Simplifying language for assent
to the oathApplicants with disabilities may need simpler language to
show they assent to the oath
Expedited scheduling for oathApplicants with disabilities may be unable to attend a later
ceremony because of their condition 
Providing sign language
interpreter at oathDeaf or hard of hearing applicants may need a sign language
interpreter to participate in the ceremony
Off-site administration of oathApplicants with disabilities may be unable to attend the court
or field of fice ceremony because of their condition
1. Simplifying Language for Assent to the Oath
An of ficer may question the applicant about the Oath of Allegiance in a clear , slow manner and in
simplified language if the applicant presents dif ficulty understanding questions regarding the oath. This
approach allows the applicant to understand and assent to the Oath of Allegiance and understand that
he or she is becoming a U.S. citizen.
2. Expedited Scheduling for Oath
A field of fice should expedite administration of the Oath of Allegiance for an applicant who is unable to
attend a ceremony at a later time because of his or her medical impairment. The expedited process
may include a ceremony on the same day or an of f-site visit.
3. Providing Sign Language Interpreter at Oath
A field of fice should provide a sign language interpreter for an applicant who is deaf or hard of
hearing or permit the applicant to use his or her own interpreter during an administrative oath
ceremony or for a judicial ceremony where a court is unable to provide a sign language interpreter .
4. Off-Site Administration of Oath
A field of fice should administer the Oath of Allegiance immediately following the of f-site examination
for an applicant who is unable to attend because of his or her medical condition. Some applicants may
have appeared at the field of fice for the examination, but due to a deteriorating condition are unable to8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2297/2618