relief. USCIS determines, in its sole discretion, the evidentiary value of previously or concurrently
submitted evidence.[5]
In reviewing the application, of ficers consider the statements, arguments, and assertions of attorneys
and accredited representatives, but they do not constitute evidence and are not entitled to evidentiary
weight.[6]
1. Any Credible Evidence Provision
An of ficer must consider any credible evidence an applicant submits to establish eligibility . The “any
credible evidence” provision applies to the type or form of evidence of ficers must consider or may
require. However , the standard of proof for each eligibility requirement remains a preponderance of
the evidence. For each eligibility requirement, applicants must submit suf ficient relevant, probative,
and credible evidence to establish that the claim is “more likely than not” or “probably” true.[7]
Inability to Obtain Documentation and Evidence
In establishing eligibility for T nonimmigrant status, an applicant may submit “any credible evidence”
for consideration.[8] USCIS recognizes the dif ficulties traf ficking victims may experience in obtaining
primary or secondary evidence relevant to establishing their eligibility , and therefore allows applicants
to submit any credible evidence.
Due to the nature of their victimization (including possible loss of control of personal possessions as a
tactic to further force, fraud, or coercion), traf ficking victims may be unable to obtain certain personal
information that would otherwise be available to support a determination of eligibility . The traf ficker
may control access to, confiscate, or destroy relevant documentation, including identification, travel,
employment, or immigration documentation.
Applicants are not required to demonstrate the unavailability of primary and secondary evidence;
however , when an applicant fails to submit evidence suf ficient to establish eligibility , officers may
request that the applicant demonstrate or explain the unavailability of a specific document or specific
types of documents if they are necessary to establish eligibility . Although USCIS allows submission of
any credible evidence and assesses the credibility of all evidence submitted, an explanation from the
applicant regarding the unavailability of specific documents assists of ficers in determining eligibility .
Factual Inconsistencies
In evaluating the credibility and suf ficiency of an applicant’ s personal statement and other evidence
submitted, of ficers must consider the impact of trauma and victimization. Of ficers should also be
mindful of the complex ways in which trauma may present for survivors of traf ficking, including
cognitive, emotional, sensory , and physical impacts.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 675/2618