if applicable.[5]
Intent to Depart  
In order to be eligible for F-1 or M-1 classification, a student must intend to depart from the United
States after their temporary period of stay (for example, upon completion of their program of study and
any authorized practical training in this country or upon termination of their nonimmigrant status) and
have a foreign residence that they have no intention of abandoning.[6]
The foreign residence requirement should be adjudicated dif ferently for students than for other
nonimmigrants.[7] Typically , students lack the strong economic and social ties of more established
applicants, and they plan longer stays in the United States. INA  101(a)(15)(F)(i) assumes that the
natural circumstances of being a student do not disqualify the student from qualifying for nonimmigrant
status. Considerations should include the student’ s present intent, not what they might do after a
lengthy stay in the United States.[8]
If a student had a foreign residence immediately prior to traveling to the United States, even if such
residence was with parents or guardians, they may be considered to be maintaining a residence
abroad if they have the present intent to depart the United States at the conclusion of their studies.
[9] The fact that this intention may change is not a suf ficient reason to deny them F classification. In
addition, the present intent to depart does not imply the need to return to the country from which they
hold a passport. It means only that they must intend to leave the United States upon completion of
their studies. Given that most students are young, they are not expected to have a long-range plan
and may not be able to fully explain their plans at the conclusion of their studies. The student must
have the present intent to depart at the conclusion of their approved activities.[10]
A student may be the beneficiary of an approved or pending permanent labor certification application
or immigrant petition and still be able to demonstrate their intention to depart after a temporary period
of stay .[11] USCIS of ficers generally view the fact that a student is the beneficiary of an approved or
pending permanent labor certification or an immigrant visa petition as not necessarily impacting
their eligibility for the classification, so long as the student intends to depart at the end of their
temporary period of stay . In all cases, the of ficer must consider all facts presented when determining
whether a student is eligible for the F or M classification.
Sufficient Funds
F-1 students must have suf ficient funds to successfully study in the United States without resorting to
unauthorized U.S. employment for financial support. F-1 students must provide documentary evidence
that suf ficient funds are, or will be, available to defray all expenses during the entire period of
anticipated study .[12]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 378/2618