Criterion 3:  Evidence that the beneficiary has performed, and will perform, in a lead,
starring, or critical role for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished
reputation evidenced by articles in newspapers, trade journals, publications, or testimonials.
[59]
others in the organization.[61]
To show a critical role, the evidence should establish that the beneficiary has contributed or will
contribute in a way that is of significant importance to the organization or establishment’ s activities.
Officers consider factors such as whether the beneficiary’ s performance in the role has been or will
be integral or important to the organization or establishment’ s goals or activities, especially in
relation to others in similar positions within the organization.
Detailed letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the beneficiary’ s role
can be particularly helpful in addressing this criterion. Letters and testimonials should provide as
much detail as possible about the beneficiary’ s role and the reputation of the organization or
establishment and give the credentials of the author , including the basis of the author ’s knowledge
of the beneficiary’ s role.
In addition, the organization or establishment, or the relevant division or department within the
entity , must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. Relevant factors for evaluating the
reputation of an entity or its department or division include, but are not limited to, the scale of its
customer base, longevity , or relevant media coverage. The organization need not have directly
employed the beneficiary .
Criterion 4:  Evidence that the beneficiary has a record of major commercial or critically
acclaimed successes as evidenced by such indicators as title, rating, standing in the field,
box office receipts, motion pictures or television ratings, and other occupational
achievements reported in trade journals, major newspapers, or other publications.[62]
This criterion requires evidence in the form of publications establishing the beneficiary’ s record of
major commercial or critically acclaimed success. The publications may include print or online
publications or transcripts of radio or video coverage.
A submitted publication does not have to be primarily about the beneficiary and may be about a
production in which the beneficiary performed. However , the record should demonstrate how the
production’ s major commercial or critically acclaimed success represents the beneficiary’ s success.
For instance, a petitioner might establish that a production’ s success is in some way attributable to
the beneficiary based on the significance of the beneficiary’ s contributions.
A publication reporting the commercial success of the beneficiary or the beneficiary’ s work should
reflect that the ratings, receipts, sales, revenue, standing, or other occupational achievement8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 550/2618