certain procedures must be followed.[9] In certain cases described in this chapter , the CPR may not
amend the filing basis but instead must file a new Form I-751.
Evidence
When filing Form I-751 as a waiver , the CPR must submit evidence:
To establish the facts underlying the basis on which the CPR is seeking a waiver; and
Evidence that the marriage was not entered into for the purpose of evading immigration laws
(except in the case of a CPR filing a waiver solely based on extreme hardship).
USCIS considers any credible evidence relevant to a waiver . The determination of what evidence is
credible and the weight given to the evidence is within the sole discretion of USCIS.[10]
A. Extreme Hardship
To establish eligibility for the extreme hardship waiver , a CPR must establish that the CPR’ s removal
from the United States would result in extreme hardship.[11] In determining extreme hardship, USCIS
only considers circumstances that occurred during the 2-year period following the CPR’ s admission to
the United States for conditional permanent residence. USCIS does not consider factors arising or
events occurring after that period.[12]
However , circumstances that arose before the 2-year period and continued into the 2-year period may
be considered. USCIS may consider whether the continued circumstances amount to extreme
hardship, regardless of whether the circumstances initially arose before the 2-year period.
For example, if there was a coup in the CPR’ s home country before the 2-year period, but the coup
triggered other events occurring during the 2-year period, and the CPR’ s removal from the United
States in light of these events would result in extreme hardship, the CPR may qualify for the waiver .
USCIS considers only extreme hardship that would result from the CPR’ s removal from the United
States, presumably to the CPR’ s home country . Any removal from the United States is likely to result
in a certain degree of hardship; however , only in those cases where the hardship is extreme does
USCIS grant a waiver .[13]
In order to establish eligibility for the extreme hardship waiver , the CPR does not need to have a
qualifying relative, as is the case in some other immigration contexts. The CPR must establish that
extreme hardship would result from the CPR’ s removal, but there is no requirement that the extreme
hardship must be to any specific person.[14]
Unlike all other bases for filing Form I-751 , there is no requirement that the CPR establish that the
marriage had been entered into in good faith in order to qualify for the extreme hardship waiver .[15]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1385/2618