protect the public health, USCIS, in consultation with CDC, has established the following three
requirements that an applicant (or , if the applicant is a child, the applicant’ s parents) has to
demonstrate through documentary evidence: 
The applicant must be opposed to all vaccinations in any form.[16]
The applicant has to demonstrate that he or she opposes vaccinations in all forms; the applicant
cannot “pick and choose” between the vaccinations. The fact that the applicant has received certain
vaccinations but not others is not automatic grounds for the denial of a waiver . Instead, the of ficer
should consider the reasons provided for having received those vaccines. 
For example, the applicant's religious beliefs or moral convictions may have changed substantially
since the date the particular vaccinations were administered, or the applicant is a child who may have
already received certain vaccinations under the routine practices of an orphanage. These examples
do not limit the of ficer’s authority to consider all credible circumstances and accompanying evidence. 
The objection must be based on religious beliefs or moral convictions.
This second requirement should be handled with sensitivity . On one hand, the applicant's religious
beliefs must be balanced against the benefit to society as a whole. On the other hand, the of ficer
should be mindful that vaccinations of fend certain persons' religious beliefs. 
The religious belief or moral conviction must be sincere.
To protect only those beliefs that are held as a matter of conscience, the applicant must demonstrate
that he or she holds the belief sincerely , and in subjective good faith of an adherent. Even if these
beliefs accurately reflect the applicant's ultimate conclusions about vaccinations, they must stem from
religious or moral convictions, and must not have been framed in terms of a particular belief so as to
gain the legal remedy desired, such as this waiver . 
While an applicant may attribute his or her opposition to a particular religious belief or moral conviction
that is inherently opposed to vaccinations, the focus of the waiver adjudication should be on whether
that claimed belief or moral conviction is truly held, that is, whether it is applied consistently in the
applicant’ s life. 
The applicant does not need to be a member of a recognized religion or attend a specific house of
worship. Note that the plain language of the statute refers to religious beliefs or moral convictions, not
religious or moral establishments. 
It is necessary to distinguish between strong religious beliefs or moral convictions and mere
preference. Religious beliefs or moral convictions are generally defined by their ability to cause an
adherent to categorically disregard self-interest in favor of religious or moral tenets. The applicant has
the burden of establishing a strong objection to vaccinations that is based on religious beliefs or
moral convictions, as opposed to a mere preference against vaccinations.  8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2156/2618