[^ 52]  See Privacy Act of 1974, Pub. L. 93-579 (PDF) , 88 Stat. 1896 (December 31, 1974) (codified
at 5 U.S.C. 552a ).
Chapter 9 - Pre-Adoption Immigration Review Programs
In certain countries, USCIS and the U.S. Department of State (DOS) have implemented Pre-Adoption
Immigration Review (P AIR) programs, which require the orphan determination to be completed before
the final adoption or grant of custody in the child's country of origin. The sections below outline when
the orphan determination is conducted and who conducts it in each country that has a P AIR program.
A. Ethiopia
USCIS may accept orphan petitions filed on behalf of a child from, and physically located in, Ethiopia
who is not yet the subject of a final legal custody order or final adoption by a prospective adoptive
parent (P AP).[1] PAPs adopting such children may file[2] the orphan petition for a preliminary
determination before traveling to and adopting a child in Ethiopia.
B. Taiwan
USCIS accepts orphan petitions filed on behalf of a child from, and physically located in, Taiwan who
is not yet the subject of a final legal custody order or final adoption by a P AP.[3] PAPs adopting such
children are encouraged to file[4] the orphan petition with USCIS in the United States before traveling
to and adopting a child in Taiwan. The American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) may accept orphan petitions
but forwards such petitions to USCIS in the United States for a preliminary determination of eligibility .
A PAP should file with USCIS a completed orphan petition together with all required evidence, except
the adoption decree or grant of legal custody .[5] In addition, a P AP adopting from Taiwan should
submit:
Evidence of availability for intercountry adoption generated by the Taiwan island-wide database;
Signed adoption agreement between birth parents and P APs for use in Taiwan district family
courts; and
Power of attorney appointing the Taiwan adoption service provider to represent the P APs.
A USCIS of ficer reviews the petition and supporting evidence and requests that AIT conduct the
necessary orphan determination to determine whether the child appears to qualify as an orphan and is
otherwise likely eligible to immigrate to the United States based on the orphan petition. If USCIS
makes a favorable preliminary determination that the child appears to meet the definition of an
orphan[6] and otherwise appears eligible to immigrate, USCIS issues a P AIR letter . This preliminary
eligibility determination is not a final adjudication of the orphan petition and is not binding on USCIS.
USCIS then forwards the file to AIT.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 974/2618