In cases where an applicant changes or plans to change his or her residence after filing the
naturalization application, the applicant is required to report the change of address to USCIS so that
the applicant’ s A-file (with application) can be transferred to the appropriate of fice having jurisdiction
over the applicant’ s new place of residence.
B. Place of Residence
The applicant’ s “residence” refers to the applicant’ s principal, actual dwelling place in fact, without
regard to intent.[3] The duration of an applicant’ s residence in a particular location is measured from
the moment the applicant first establishes residence in that location.[4]
C. Place of Residence in Certain Cases
There are special considerations regarding the place of residence for the following applicants:[5]
1. Military Member
Special provisions exist for applicants who are serving or have served in the U.S. armed forces but
who do not qualify for naturalization on the basis of the military service for one year .[6]
The service member ’s place of residence may be the state or service district where he or she is
physically present for at least three months immediately prior to filing (or the examination if filed
early);
The service member ’s place of residence may be the location of the residence of his or her
spouse or minor child, or both; or
The service member ’s place of residence may be his or her home of record as declared to the
U.S. armed forces at the time of enlistment and as currently reflected in the service member ’s
military personnel file. 
2. Spouse of Military Member (Residing Abroad)
The spouse of a U.S. armed forces member may be eligible to count the time he or she is residing (or
has resided) abroad with the service member as continuous residence and physical presence in any
state or district of the United States.[7] Such a spouse may consider his or her place of residence
abroad as a place of residence in any state or district in the United States.
3. Students
An applicant who is attending an educational institution in a state or service district other than the
applicant's home residence may apply for naturalization where that institution is located, or in the state
of the applicant's home residence if the applicant is financially dependent upon his or her parents at
the time of filing and during the naturalization process.[8]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2353/2618