The applicant should check the appropriate eligibility option on the Application for Naturalization to
indicate the applicant is applying on the basis of qualifying military service. The applicant should file
the application in accordance with the form instructions.
If an applicant filing under a dif ferent eligibility provision for naturalization has served in the military ,
the of ficer should determine if the applicant may be eligible under a qualifying military basis. If the
applicant may be eligible based on the military service, the of ficer should provide the applicant with the
opportunity to seek naturalization on that basis.
If the applicant would like to seek naturalization based on their military service but is ultimately
determined not to be eligible on that basis, the of ficer must consider the applicant’ s eligibility under the
original filing basis before issuing a decision. Regardless of the filing basis, USCIS must conduct a
Defense Clearance Investigative Index (DCII) query on all applicants who currently serve or have
served in the U.S. military .[4]
Request for Certification of Military or Naval Service ( Form N-426 )
Form N-426 confirms whether the applicant is serving honorably in an active duty status or in the
Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve. The form may also record whether the applicant has ever
obtained a discharge or exemption from military service from the U.S. armed forces on the ground that
the applicant is an alien. Only applicants who are currently serving and who are applying
under INA 328 or INA 329 are required to submit the form. An applicant applying under a dif ferent
naturalization provision is not required to submit the form, even if the applicant has prior military
service.
The military must complete and certify (sign) the Form N-426  before it is submitted to USCIS. A
certifying of ficial must complete and sign the Form N-426 within 6 months of submitting the Form N-
400 to USCIS, except in cases where the applicant enlisted in the Selected Reserve of the Ready
Reserve through the Military Accessions V ital to National Interest (MA VNI) program before October
13, 2017.[5]
An applicant who is separated or discharged from the military at the time of filing Form N-400 is not
required to submit Form N-426 .
Discharge Documents
Applicants who are separated or discharged from the military must submit a photocopy of their
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214), National Guard Report of
Separation and Record of Service (NGB Form 22), or other of ficial discharge document for all periods
of service.[6] The discharge document must list information on the type of separation and character of
service. Such information is typically found on page “Member-4” of DD Form 214 or Block 24 of NGB
Form 22.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2551/2618