factors may be especially relevant to beneficiaries in STEM fields, the guidance applies to all
professors and researchers.
[26] Impact factor is commonly used as a measure of a journal’ s influence; it represents the average
number of citations received per article published in that journal during the 2 preceding years. See
Garfield, E, The History and Meaning of the Journal Impact Factor , Journal of the American Medical
Association, V ol. 295, Iss. 1, p. 90 (2006).
[27] The h-index is an example of a tool for measuring a researcher ’s output and impact. It is based on
the highest number of the researcher ’s publications that have been cited at least that same number of
times. For example, if a researcher has an h-index of 10, it means the researcher has 10 publications
that have 10 or more citations each (but not 1 1 publications with at least 1 1 citations each). See
Hirsch, J, An Index to Quantify an Individual’ s Scientific Research Output , Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, V ol. 102, Iss. 46, p. 16569 (2005). Other
indices for measuring output and impact are also used. When relying on any of these tools, a
petitioner should explain its methodology and significance with supporting documentation because the
sources for the data and the duration of time involved in the calculation can impact the actual h-index
value.
[28] This factor is less relevant for beneficiaries early in their career , as such persons have had less
time to accumulate citations but may nevertheless have garnered acclaim and risen to the small
percentage at the top of the field as demonstrated by other evidence in the record. As stated above,
none of the listed factors are required to demonstrate eligibility .
[29] The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education uses the R1 and R2 doctoral
university designations to recognize institutions as having very high or high research activity ,
respectively , based on publicly available federal government data regarding the number of doctoral
degrees awarded and the amount of total research expenditures. See the Carnegie Classification of
Institutions of Higher Education’ s Carnegie Classification  webpage.
[30] QS is a British analytics company specializing in global higher education. See the QS About Us
webpage. The QS W orld University Rankings annually evaluate universities according to a
methodology based on six consistent and empirical metrics: academic reputation (40 percent),
employer reputation (10 percent), faculty to student ratio (20 percent), citations per faculty (20
percent), international faculty ratio (5 percent), and international student ratio (5 percent). These
metrics are used to rank universities, as well as capture and assess university performance. See the
QS W orld University Rankings Methodology  webpage.
[31] As described in INA 203(b)(1)(B) .
[32] See INA 204(b) .
[33] See 8 CFR 204.5(i)(3)(iv) .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1182/2618