If CDC’ s response indicates that the applicant is “Class B” or “no Class A or B,” it is CDC’ s
recommendation that the applicant does not require a waiver for the medical condition.
If CDC’ s response indicates that additional information is needed in order to complete the review , the
officer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) for the applicant to provide additional
information as specified by CDC. The of ficer should submit the information obtained through the RFE
to CDC. CDC will provide a response to USCIS regarding the additional information. Once CDC
indicates that no additional information is needed, the of ficer may proceed with the adjudication of the
waiver . 
5. Discretion
As is generally the case for waivers, a waiver for mental or physical conditions with associated harmful
behavior requires an of ficer to consider whether the grant of the waiver is warranted as a matter of
discretion.[7]
CDC’ s review and endorsement of the identified U.S. health care provider should ordinarily be
sufficient to warrant a favorable exercise of discretion for the grant of the waiver . However , if an
applicant declares openly his or her unwillingness to commit to treatment, the waiver may be denied
as a matter of discretion.[8] If CDC does not favorably endorse the identified U.S. health care provider ,
the of ficer should generally not grant the waiver as a matter of discretion.
By statute, it is USCIS’ s decision whether to make the waiver subject to terms, conditions or controls.
A CDC recommendation concerning terms, conditions, or controls on the granting of the waiver
ordinarily has great persuasive weight, but is not binding on USCIS. 
USCIS should inform CDC of the decision (approval or denial) of the waiver . The of ficer does so by
completing the CDC response letter , that CDC provided when it returned the endorsed CDC forms to
the of ficer, and emailing cdcqap@cdc.gov .
 
C. Step-by-Step Checklist
Step-by-Step Checklist
Step 1 Gather the necessary documentation for CDC review .
Step 2 Send documentation to CDC.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2162/2618