a DOS embassy or consulate receive a boarding foil.
The Form I-730  beneficiary presents the transportation letter or boarding foil to the U.S. Customs and
Border Protection of ficial at the port of entry to be admitted to the United States.
E. Final Eligibility Determination and Department of State Consular Returns
When USCIS interviews Form I-730  beneficiaries domestically or abroad, the USCIS of ficer approves
the petition after all interview and procedural steps have been completed. Processing steps include:
Verifying the beneficiary’ s identity and qualifying family relationship;
For Form I-730  FTJ-R beneficiaries, determining that the beneficiary has not engaged in the
persecution of others and applicable inadmissibility grounds do not apply , and that the
beneficiary does not have an existing grant of asylum or refugee status by the United States that
remains valid;
For Form I-730  FTJ-A  beneficiaries, determining that no mandatory bars apply , and the
beneficiary merits a favorable exercise of discretion;
Confirming that USCIS has completed all required vetting, biometric, and biographic checks and
the checks are current; and
Confirming that the beneficiary has cleared medical requirements through a valid medical exam.
When DOS consular of ficers interview Form I-730  beneficiaries abroad, the USCIS initial domestic
processing of fice approves the Form I-730 petition before sending the petition to DOS. At the
beneficiary interview , if the DOS consular of ficer does not find the Form I-730 beneficiary eligible to
travel to the United States, the of ficer then completes a consular return memo.
1. Consular Returns
If, during the DOS travel eligibility determination, a DOS consular of ficer uncovers adverse information
that suggests USCIS should not have approved a Form I-730  petition, or that grounds of ineligibility
apply , DOS completes a consular return memo and returns the petition to the USCIS of fice
responsible for initial domestic processing for further action.[16]
To facilitate this process, the DOS consular of ficer prepares a consular return memo outlining the
specific issue and reason for returning the petition to USCIS for reconsideration of the approval
decision.[17]
When USCIS receives a consular return memo, the USCIS of fice responsible for initial domestic
processing reviews the DOS consular of ficer's determination. If USCIS finds the reason for the return
insuf ficient to reopen the approval, USCIS reaf firms the petition and sends it to NVC for forwarding to
the DOS embassy or consulate for further processing with a memorandum explaining why the reason
for the consular return was insuf ficient to reopen the approved petition.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 866/2618