immigrant petition, the fact that the beneficiary was previously approved for L-1A  classification is not
binding if the facts do not support approval of the immigrant petition.
Eligibility as an L-1A  nonimmigrant does not automatically establish eligibility under the criteria for an
immigrant visa classification for a multinational executive or manager . Each petition is separate and
independent and must be adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding statutory and
regulatory provisions.
Notwithstanding the fact that each petition must be adjudicated on its own merits, some courts have
asked USCIS to provide an explanation as to why , if the beneficiary had previously been classified in a
roughly analogous nonimmigrant category , USCIS has determined that the beneficiary is not eligible
for classification in the employment-based immigrant visa classification in question. For this reason,
where possible, of ficers issuing denials in these cases should provide a brief discussion as to why ,
notwithstanding the previous L-1A  nonimmigrant visa petition approval, the petitioner has failed to
meet its burden to establish eligibility for approval of the immigrant petition for classification as a
multinational executive or manager .
Unlike in the case of the L-1B nonimmigrant classification, there is no provision of law that allows a
person who was or is employed in a purely specialized knowledge capacity abroad to be classified as
a “specialized knowledge” multinational executive or manager immigrant classification.
However , it should be noted that some beneficiaries who are classified as L-1B nonimmigrants might
qualify for the multinational executive or manager immigrant classification because their specialized
knowledge and employment abroad also would have qualified as managerial or executive employment
and because the petitioners intend to employ them in managerial or executive positions on a
permanent basis.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See INA 203(b)(1)(C) .
[^ 2] See INA 212(a)(5)(D) . See 8 CFR 204.5(j)(5) .
[^ 3] See 8 CFR 204.5(j)(3)(i)(A) . See Matter of S-P-, Inc. , Adopted Decision 2018-01 (AAO Mar . 19,
2018). This decision clarifies that a beneficiary who worked abroad for a qualifying multinational
organization for at least 1 year , but left the organization for a period of more than 2 years after being
admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant, does not satisfy the 1 year of the previous 3 years
foreign employment requirement for immigrant classification as a multinational manager or executive.
To cure the interruption in employment, such a beneficiary would need an additional year of qualifying
employment abroad before he or she could once again qualify . Unlike the L-1 nonimmigrant
classification, the year of qualifying employment does not have to be “continuous.” Compare INA8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1191/2618