determinations are made on a case-by case basis in the totality of the circumstances. An extreme
hardship determination will always depend on the facts of each individual case.
For purposes of the following hypotheticals, it is assumed that:
The applicant is inadmissible under a ground that may be waived based on a showing of
extreme hardship to a qualifying relative spouse or parent.[21]
The facts asserted in the hypotheticals are supported by appropriate documentation.
Scenario 1
Tyler was admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant 5 years ago. Three years after Tyler’s
entry , Tyler married Pat, a U.S. citizen spouse. Tyler seeks a waiver claiming that Pat would suf fer
extreme hardship if Tyler were denied admission to the United States.
Pat submits a credible, sworn statement indicating that if Tyler is refused admission, Pat would
relocate to Tyler’s native country . Tyler and Pat have been married for 2 years. Pat is a sales clerk. A
similar job in the country of relocation would pay far less than Pat earns in the United States. In
addition, although Pat has visited the country of relocation several times, Pat is not fluent in the
country’ s language and lacks the ties that would facilitate employment opportunities and social and
cultural integration.
Tyler is a skilled laborer who similarly would command a much lower salary in the country of
relocation, but who was, prior to coming to the United States, gainfully employed. The couple is
renting an apartment in the United States, does not own any real estate or other significant property ,
and has no children. Pat and Tyler do not have any other family , either in the United States or in the
country of relocation.
Analysis of Scenario 1
These facts alone generally would not favor a finding of extreme hardship. The hardships to Pat, even
when aggregated, include only common consequences of relocation—economic loss and the social
and cultural dif ficulties arising mainly from Pat ’ s inability to speak the language fluently .
Scenario 2
The facts are the same as in Scenario 1 except that Pat (who is Tyler’s U.S. citizen spouse and would
relocate) has a chronic medical condition requiring regular visits to the doctor , and Tyler is an unskilled
worker who would command a much lower salary in the country of relocation. In addition, Pat has
family that lives nearby and is a crucial part of Tyler’s support system. Pat and Tyler are also active
members of their local community and have friends who often help out when Pat’ s family is not
available. Based on the care received from the doctor and the support received from family and
friends, Pat is able to manage the chronic condition.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2133/2618