Section 289 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) provides that American Indians who are born
in Canada cannot be denied admission into the United States if they possess at least 50 percent
American Indian blood. By regulation, American Indians born in Canada who are eligible for INA  289
status may also become lawful permanent residents (LPRs) if they have maintained residence in the
United States since their last entry .[1]
Texas Band of Kickapoo Indians
Certain members of the Texas Band of Kickapoo Indians, which is a subgroup of the Kickapoo Tribe of
Oklahoma, also cannot be denied admission to the United States. However , INA  289 is not the
statutory basis for the treatment of members of the Texas Band of Kickapoo Indians which is
authorized by a separate statute.[2]
2. Legal Authorities
INA 289; 8 CFR 289  – American Indians born in Canada
3. Eligibility Requirements
An alien who proves that he or she is an American Indian born in Canada, with at least 50 percent
American Indian blood, cannot be denied admission to the United States at a port of entry . If an
alien with at least 50 percent American Indian blood lives outside the United States and seeks to enter
the United States, he or she must tell the Customs and Border Protection of ficer that he or she is an
American Indian born in Canada and provide documentation to support that claim.
Aliens who live in the United States and are American Indians born in Canada who possess at least 50
percent American Indian blood are entitled to evidence of LPR status if they can establish that they
have maintained residence in the United States since their last entry .[3] They may obtain a Permanent
Resident Card (PRC)[4] by requesting a creation of record at a USCIS Field Of fice. As with
presumption of lawful admission cases,[5] USCIS is not adjudicating an application to become an
LPR, but verifying a status which the person already has and issuing documentation accordingly .
4. Documentation and Evidence
To obtain a PRC, claimants must demonstrate:
50 percent or more of blood of the American Indian race;
Birth in Canada; and
Residence in the United States since last entry .[6]
Claimants must have proof of ancestry based on familial blood relationship to parents, grandparents,
or great-grand parents who are or were registered members of a recognized Canadian Indian Band or
U.S. Indian tribe. Usually , eligibility is established by presenting identification such as a tribal8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1855/2618