3. Medical Disability Exception to English and Civics
An applicant who cannot meet the English and civics requirements because of a medical disability
may be exempt from the English requirement, the civics requirement, or both requirements.
C. Meeting Requirements under IRCA  1986
The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) mandated that persons legalized under INA
245A  meet a basic citizenship skills requirement in order to be eligible for adjustment to LPR status.
An applicant was permitted to demonstrate basic citizenship skills by:
Passing the English and civics tests administered by legacy Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS); or
Passing standardized English and civics tests administered by organizations then authorized by
the INS.[4]
At the time of the naturalization re-examination, the of ficer only retests the applicant on any portion of
the test that the applicant did not satisfy under IRCA. In all cases, the applicant must demonstrate the
ability to speak English at the time of the naturalization examination, unless the applicant meets one of
the age and time as resident exemptions of English or qualifies for a medical waiver .[5]
D. English Portion of the T est
A naturalization applicant must only demonstrate an ability to read, write, speak, and understand
words in ordinary usage.[6] Ordinary usage means comprehensible and pertinent communication
through simple vocabulary and grammar , which may include noticeable errors in pronouncing,
constructing, spelling, and understanding completely certain words, phrases, and sentences.
An applicant may ask for words to be repeated or rephrased and may make some errors in
pronunciation, spelling, and grammar and still meet the English requirement for naturalization. An
officer should repeat and rephrase questions until the of ficer is satisfied that the applicant either fully
understands the question or is unable to understand English.[7]
1. Speaking T est
An of ficer determines an applicant’ s ability to speak and understand English based on the applicant’ s
ability to respond to questions normally asked in the course of the naturalization examination. The
officer’s questions relate to eligibility and include questions provided in the naturalization application.
[8] The of ficer should repeat and rephrase questions during the naturalization examination until the
officer is satisfied that the applicant either understands the questions or does not understand English.
An applicant who does not qualify for a waiver of the English requirement must be able to
communicate in English about his or her application and eligibility for naturalization. An applicant does8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2367/2618