USCIS administratively closes approved Form I-730  petitions when the beneficiary fails to appear for
an interview and the DOS embassy or consulate returns the approved Form I-730 to the USCIS
domestic of fice. When a beneficiary fails to appear for interview , USCIS issues a notice to the
petitioner that USCIS has administratively closed the case.[27]
If the petitioner responds that the beneficiary can appear for an interview within 6 months of the date
of the response, USCIS reopens, resumes processing and sends the Form I-730 to the appropriate
DOS embassy or consulate for additional processing.
If the petitioner does not respond, indicates the beneficiary is unable to appear for an interview , or is
unable to specify when the beneficiary can appear , the case remains administratively closed. To
request that the petition resume processing, the petitioner must contact USCIS. There is no fee to
request that processing of the petition resume.[28]
H. W ithdrawals
For beneficiaries located outside of the United States, the petitioner may withdraw their Form I-730
petition at any time until the beneficiary is admitted to or has arrived in the United States. For
beneficiaries located inside the United States, the petitioner may withdraw their Form I-730 petition at
any time up until the beneficiary is granted derivative asylee or refugee status. A withdrawal may not
be retracted.[29]
Only the petitioner can request withdrawal of the Form I-730 . The beneficiary can defer or refuse to
travel but cannot withdraw the Form I-730.[30]
The petitioner should sign and date the withdrawal request. An unsigned request from the petitioner to
withdraw the petition, or a request to withdraw the petition signed by someone other than the
petitioner , including an attorney or accredited representative, is generally insuf ficient.
If the withdrawal request is insuf ficient, USCIS should contact the petitioner and inform the petitioner
that their request was insuf ficient for USCIS to accept the withdrawal and, if the petitioner wishes to
withdraw the petition, the petitioner should submit a written withdrawal request signed and dated by
the petitioner .
I. Appeals and Motions to Reopen or Reconsider 
A petitioner may not appeal the denial of a Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ).[31]
However , a petitioner may file a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ) to request that USCIS
reopen the case or reconsider the decision.[32]
The petitioner must file the Form I-290B  within 30 days from the date USCIS issued the denial notice
(or 33 days if the petitioner received the notice by mail). The filing must include the appropriate filing8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 868/2618