Refer an alien to another medical professional solely because the alien sought care from a
professional who shares the same language, culture, ethnicity , or nationality .
2. Connection Between Medical Disability and Educational Requirements
When reviewing the request for the medical disability exception, the of ficer must determine whether
the medical professional has suf ficiently explained with enough supporting details that the alien has a
disability or impairment. The medical professional must also explain how the disability or impairment
prevents the alien from being able to demonstrate that he or she meets the English requirement, civics
requirement, or both (also known as “nexus”).[21] The explanation should be suf ficiently detailed and
tailored to the individual alien’ s diagnosed disabilities or impairments.
After review of the record, the of ficer may only grant an exception from the English or civics
requirements if the alien has demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that the physical or
developmental disability or mental impairment results in functioning so impaired as to render the alien
unable to:
Demonstrate an understanding of the English language, including reading, writing, and speaking
words in ordinary usage in the English language;
Demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of history and of the principles
and form of government of the United States; or
Both. 
3. Use of Interpreters
Certification on Form N-648 and Presence of Interpreter at Medical Examination
A medical professional may use an interpreter during a medical examination. The interpreter must sign
the interpreter section of Form N-648. Interpreters who provide services for telehealth medical
examinations are not required to complete the interpreter certification on Form N-648. Instead, it is the
responsibility of the medical professional to complete the interpreter certification on the form.
When it’ s not clear if an interpreter was present during the medical examination, the of ficer must
confirm with the alien whether an interpreter assisted during the medical examination that was
conducted to complete Form N-648 . For example, the of ficer may ask the alien how they
communicated during the medical examination.
If necessary , the of ficer may ask the interpreter about the interpretation services he or she provided
during the medical examination in connection with the alien’ s Form N-648 .[22] Officers may not ask
interpreters about the medical condition of the alien. Before questioning the interpreter , the of ficer
must place the interpreter under oath.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2378/2618