1. Proper Filing and Initial Review
A CPR may file Form I-751  regardless of whether or not the CPR is physically present in the United
States. However , if the CPR is outside the United States at the time of filing, the CPR must return to
the United States with the CPR’ s petitioning spouse and dependent children to comply with the
interview requirement, unless the interview requirement is waived by USCIS, and any biometrics
collection requirements.[22]
The CPR must file a jointly-filed Form I-751 during the 90-day period immediately preceding the
second anniversary of the CPR receiving permanent resident status. A CPR may file the joint petition
after the expiration of the 90-day period if the CPR establishes that there was good cause and
extenuating circumstances for failing to file a timely joint petition.[23]
CPRs may file individual filing requests and waiver requests at any time before they are subject to a
final order of removal. CPR children who must file a separate Form I-751 may do so at any time before
they are subject to a final order of removal.
In order for the Form I-751 to be considered properly filed, it must be properly signed, accompanied by
the appropriate fee, and contain evidence that the marriage was not entered into for the purpose of
evading immigration laws.[24]
CPRs must file the Form I-751 according to the form instructions. The Form I-751 must be:
Timely filed;
Submitted on the current edition of the form;
Filed at the correct filing location;
Accompanied by the correct filing fee; and
Properly signed.[25]
When initially reviewing the Form I-751, USCIS first determines whether the Form I-751 has been
properly filed according to the criteria above and in the form instructions. If the petition is not properly
filed, USCIS may reject the Form I-751.
If the petition is properly filed according to the form instructions, the of ficer determines whether the
CPR was properly classified as a CPR and whether the CPR submitted evidence of a bona fide
qualifying marriage.[26] Then the of ficer proceeds with a full review of the record and examination of
eligibility .
2. Late Joint Filing
The CPR must file a jointly-filed Form I-751  during the 90-day period immediately preceding the
second anniversary of the CPR receiving CPR status. If the CPR and the petitioning spouse file a joint
petition untimely , USCIS determines if the failure to file timely is based on good cause and extenuating8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1373/2618