Lawful permanent resident (LPR) status confers several significant privileges, rights, and
responsibilities[1] that invoke a commitment to greater assimilation in the United States and of fers a
pathway to U.S. citizenship. These privileges, rights, and responsibilities include:
Living permanently in the United States, provided the LPR does not commit any actions that
would make the LPR removable under immigration law;
Working in the United States in any legal capacity of the LPR’ s qualification and choosing;
Being protected by all laws of the United States, including state of residence and local
jurisdictions;
Obeying all laws of the United States and localities;
Filing income tax returns and reporting income to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and state
tax authorities;
Supporting the democratic form of government of the United States;[2]
Registering with the Selective Service, if male and age 18 through 25;
Petitioning for a spouse, unmarried children, and unmarried son(s) or daughter(s) to receive
permanent residence; and
Applying for U.S. citizenship once eligible.
There are two general paths to LPR status. Aliens who are outside of the United States and who are
beneficiaries of approved immigrant petitions can apply for an immigrant visa at an overseas consular
office of the U.S. Department of State. Once issued an immigrant visa, if an alien is found admissible,
he or she may be admitted into the United States as an LPR.
Aliens who are present in the United States and who are beneficiaries of approved immigrant petitions
may generally file an application with USCIS to adjust their status to that of an LPR, or they may
depart the United States and apply for an immigrant visa abroad. One reason Congress created the
adjustment of status provision was to enable certain aliens physically present in the United States to
become LPRs without incurring the expense and inconvenience of traveling abroad to obtain an
immigrant visa. Congress has added additional adjustment of status provisions to:
Ensure national security and public safety;
Advance economic growth and a robust immigrant labor force;
Promote family unity; and
Accommodate humanitarian resettlement.
B. Background
Adjustment of status to lawful permanent residence describes the process by which an alien obtains
U.S. LPR status while physically present in the United States. USCIS issues a permanent resident
card (Form I-551) (commonly called a green card) to the successful adjustment applicant as proof of
such immigrant status. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1430/2618