For DVs, the date USCIS considers a visa available is the first day on which the principal alien’ s rank
number is current for visa processing.[34]
Determining When a V isa is Available to File an Adjustment Application
Aliens can determine when they may file for adjustment of status by referring first to the USCIS
Adjustment of Status Filing Charts from the V isa Bulletin  webpage and then to the DOS Visa Bulletin .
[35]
In September 2015, DOS and USCIS announced a revision to the V isa Bulletin, which created two
charts of dates.[36] DOS publishes a new V isa Bulletin on a monthly basis. Since October 2015, the
Visa Bulletin has featured two charts per immigrant preference category:
Dates for Filing chart; and
Final Action Dates chart.
USCIS designates one of the two charts for use by aliens each month.[37] Aliens must check the
USCIS Adjustment of Status Filing Charts from the V isa Bulletin  webpage to see which chart to use in
determining when they may file adjustment of status applications.
Aliens cannot rely on the DOS V isa Bulletin alone because the V isa Bulletin merely publishes both
charts; it does not state which chart can be used to determine when to file an adjustment of status
application. The DOS V isa Bulletin contains a clear warning to aliens to consult with the USCIS
website for guidance on whether to use the Dates for Filing chart or Final Action Dates chart to
determine when they may file an adjustment of status application.
It is important to note that while USCIS designates one of the charts for use by aliens each month for
accepting and processing adjustment of status applications, the Final Action Dates chart always
governs when a visa is authorized for issuance to an alien who filed an adjustment of status
application.
Final Action Dates Chart Used for Child Status Protection Act Age Determination
An alien may choose to file an adjustment application based on the cutof f dates in the Dates for Filing
chart of the DOS V isa Bulletin during a month when USCIS designates that chart for use. However ,
USCIS uses the Final Action Dates chart to determine the alien’ s age at the time of visa availability for
CSPA age calculation purposes. Age at the time of visa availability is the alien’ s age on the first day of
the month of the DOS V isa Bulletin that indicates availability according to the Final Action Dates chart.
An alien who chooses to file an adjustment application based on the Dates for Filing chart may
ultimately not be considered a child for immigration purposes if his or her calculated CSP A age is 21 or
older at the time his or her visa becomes available according to the Final Action Dates chart.[38]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1481/2618