collection of applications or retention of any information from such applications, or any other activities
related to voter registration.
2. Voter Registration Services
The term “voter registration services” includes one or more of the following activities:
Distribution of voter registration application forms;
 Assisting interested applicants in completing voter registration application forms;
Reviewing submitted forms to ensure that each form is complete;
Collecting completed forms for submission to the local election of ficial; or
Providing nonpartisan educational information on the voting process.[27]
The mechanism for registration may vary by ceremony location, but in every case must take place
only after the conclusion of the ceremony , when the candidates are of ficially U.S. citizens. USCIS
provides space to governmental or nongovernmental entities in the same ceremony space or room to
provide on-site voter registration services, if available.
If no space is available for governmental or nongovernmental entities to provide on-site voter
registration services, the USCIS field of fice distributes voter registration applications to each newly
naturalized citizen.[28] USCIS bases a “no space available” determination on the location of the
ceremony venue,[29] the size of the venue facility , and the number of applicants naturalizing, as well
as the layout of the venue space, in accordance with safety standards and regulations. “No space
available” determinations are made on a case-by-case basis by USCIS field leadership conducting the
ceremony .
3. Registration by Nongovernmental Organizations
In-person voter registration services by the state or local election of fice is optimal. If state or local
election of ficials are unable to participate, all interested nongovernmental groups may seek to of fer
voter registration services at administrative naturalization ceremonies. To qualify , nongovernmental
organizations must be:
A bona-fide nonprofit that is exempt from federal tax requirements;[30]
Nonpartisan; and
Approved by USCIS field leadership.
All interested nongovernmental organizations seeking to of fer voter registration services must submit a
one-time V oter Registration Services Attestation ( Form N-401 )[31] to the local USCIS Field Of fice
Director  at least 60 days before the ceremony . Field leadership provides a written response to each
request after consultation with the USCIS Of fice of the Chief Counsel’ s Ethics Division, at least 30
days before the date of the ceremony .[32]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2586/2618