Where USCIS determines there is substantial and probative evidence that the self-petitioner
previously engaged in marriage fraud, the burden shifts to the self-petitioner to overcome the finding.
[28] Officers may not rely solely on a prior finding of marriage fraud but must make a separate and
independent determination that the self-petitioner previously engaged in marriage fraud.[29]
USCIS provides self-petitioners with an opportunity to rebut the evidence that they entered into or
conspired to enter into a prior marriage for the purpose of evading immigration laws by issuing an
Request for Evidence (RFE) or a Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID).
D. Death of the U.S. Citizen, Lawful Permanent Resident, or Self-Petitioner
Self-petitioners must demonstrate a qualifying relationship with the abusive U.S. citizen or LPR
relative to be eligible for the self-petition.[30] Historically , if a petitioner for a family-based immigrant
visa petition died while the petition was pending or after it was approved and the beneficiary had not
yet become an LPR, USCIS denied the petition if it was pending or revoked the petition if it was
approved.[31]
Over time, however , Congress recognized the inequities this created for some aliens in these
situations and created provisions to allow surviving beneficiaries to continue the immigration process
despite the death of certain petitioning relatives and principal beneficiaries.[32]
For self-petitioners and their derivatives, the impact of the U.S. citizen, LPR, or self-petitioner ’s death
on the validity of the self-petition depends on who died, who the surviving relative is, and whether the
self-petition was filed at the time of the death.
Self-petitioners and derivative beneficiaries must notify USCIS of the death of the qualifying relative or
the self-petitioner and submit evidence of the death, such as a death certificate.
1. Abusive U.S. Citizen’ s Death
Abusive U.S. Citizen Dies Prior to the Filing of the Self-Petition
Self-petitioning spouses or parents whose abusive U.S. citizen relative died before they filed a self-
petition continue to remain eligible to file a self-petition for 2 years after the death.[33] The requirement
that a self-petitioner file within 2 years following the death of the U.S. citizen relative is a condition of
eligibility for which there is no waiver or equitable tolling available. The 2-year period cannot be
equitably tolled because the statute allows for self-petitioning while the qualifying relative is living and
creates a cut-of f date for filing when the relative has died.
Note that for abused parents to be eligible to self-petition, the U.S. citizen son or daughter must have
been at least 21 years old when the son or daughter died. If a self-petitioning child’ s U.S. citizen
parent dies before the child files a self-petition, however , the child is ineligible for V AWA benefits.[34]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 791/2618