Registered nurses must demonstrate eligibility for TN status based on this specific occupation by
providing a provincial or state license or licenciatura degree.[13] However , in order to be admitted as a
TN nonimmigrant, the registered nurse must present a permanent state license, a temporary state
license, or other temporary authorization to work as a registered nurse, issued by the state nursing
board in the state of intended employment.[14] Admission of nurses should not be limited to the
expiration date of these documents.
In addition, registered nurses must present a certificate from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign
Nursing Schools or an equivalent credentialing organization.[15]
4. Sylviculturists and Foresters
Sylviculturists[16] and foresters plan and supervise the growing, protection, and harvesting of trees.
Range managers improve, protect, and manage rangelands to maximize their use without damaging
the environment. A baccalaureate or licenciatura degree in forestry or a related field or a state or
provincial license is the minimum entry requirement for these occupations.[17]
5. Disaster Relief Insurance Claims Adjusters
Disaster relief insurance claims adjusters must submit documentation that there is a declared disaster
event. In general, an event can only be considered a disaster event upon declaration by at least one of
the following:
The President of the United States;
A state statute or a local ordinance; or
The Property Claims Service of the American Insurance Services Group through the assignment
of a catastrophe serial number to the disaster event site.
An association of insurance companies representing at least 15 percent of the property casualty
market in the United States may also declare a disaster if associated property damage exceeds $5
million and represents a significant number of claims.
6. Management Consultants
Management consultants provide services that improve the managerial, operating, and economic
performance of public and private entities by analyzing and resolving strategic and operating problems
to improve the entity’ s goals, objectives, policies, strategies, administration, organization, and
operation.
To demonstrate eligibility for TN status based on this specific occupation, an alien must show:
Proof of a baccalaureate or licenciatura degree;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 637/2618