Impact of Past Grants on Future Determinations
An initial grant or renewal of deferred action and issuance of a BFD EAD does not guarantee that
USCIS will approve the principal applicant or their eligible family members for T nonimmigrant status.
When the application is under final adjudication, an of ficer assesses eligibility requirements for T
nonimmigrant status. This adjudication does not include consideration of prior grants of deferred
action or BFD EAD.
3. Secondary Review 
A determination that an applicant will not receive deferred action and a BFD EAD is not a denial
of Form I-914  or the Application for Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ). USCIS does not accept or
process motions to reopen or reconsider , appeals,[18] or requests to re-apply for deferred action and a
BFD EAD.
When USCIS determines an application does not initially appear to be bona fide or does not merit a
favorable exercise of discretion, USCIS proceeds to secondary review of the application, which
consists of a full adjudication of T nonimmigrant status eligibility .[19]
4. BFD EAD Issuance
Previously Filed Applications for Employment Authorization
USCIS uses the pending Form I-765  filed by a principal or derivative applicant under the T visa
employment authorization category[20] to issue a BFD EAD. Using the pending application limits the
burden on applicants to file additional paperwork.
Once USCIS has determined that an applicant present in the United States has a bona fide application
for T nonimmigrant status and merits a favorable exercise of discretion, and therefore may receive
deferred action and a BFD EAD, USCIS issues a notice to inform the applicant of the decision.[21]
Applicants who have already filed a Form I-765  receive a grant of deferred action and an EAD valid for
4 years from the date of approval of the Form I-765.
Application for Employment Authorization Needed
Where an applicant has filed a bona fide application for T nonimmigrant status but has not filed an
accompanying Form I-765  under the relevant category , USCIS issues a notice indicating that
the applicant has received a BFD and may receive a BFD EAD. To obtain an EAD, the applicant must
file a Form I-765 after receiving this notice.
Applicants who file a new Form I-765 after receiving the BFD notice from USCIS may receive deferred
action and employment authorization valid for 4 years from the date of approval of the Form I-765. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 700/2618