[^ 6] See 6 CFR 15 .
[^ 7] The accommodations discussed in this part are distinguished from the oath waiver process by
which the applicant’ s complete examination is conducted by a legal guardian or surrogate appointed
by a court of law , or an eligible designated representative. See Part J, Oath of Allegiance, Chapter 3,
Oath of Allegiance Modifications and W aivers [ 12 USCIS-PM J.3 ]. 
[^ 8] See Pub. L. 93-1 12 (PDF) , 87 Stat. 355, 394 (September 26, 1973).
Chapter 2 - Accommodation Policies and Procedures
USCIS has established policies and procedures for handling and processing accommodation
requests, which include:
Providing information locally as needed on how to request accommodations;
Designating a point-of-contact to handle accommodation requests whenever possible;
Responding to inquiries and reviewing accommodation requests timely;
Establishing internal processes for receiving and for properly filing requests; and
Processing requests and providing accommodations whenever appropriate.
A. Requesting an Accommodation
1. Submitting the Request
It is the applicant’ s responsibility to request an accommodation in advance, each time an
accommodation is needed. Generally , the applicant, his or her attorney or accredited representative,
or legal guardian should request an accommodation concurrently with the filing of the naturalization
application. However , an applicant may also call the USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY :
1-800-767-1833), use the online accommodations request form  in order to request an
accommodation, or request an accommodation with the field of fice at any time during the
naturalization process.
2. Timeliness of Request
The field of fice’s ability to provide an accommodation on the date that it is needed may be af fected by
the timeliness of the accommodation request. Some types of accommodations do not require advance
notice and can be immediately provided. This may include a USCIS employee speaking loudly or
slowly to an applicant, or allowing additional time for an applicant to answer during the examination.
Other types of accommodations may be dif ficult to provide without advance planning. This may8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2290/2618