Definitions
Foreign of ficial documents and laws may use dif ferent terms from those used in U.S. immigration law
or use the same terms but with dif ferent meanings. A child must meet the definition of an orphan as
defined by U.S. immigration law .[4] To determine if the child meets one of the below definitions under
U.S. immigration law , USCIS considers the laws of the child's country of origin and what actions the
foreign competent authorities must take. USCIS also considers the actual facts and circumstances of
the case as supported by the evidence of record.
B. No Legal Parent
1. Abandonment
Abandonment must include not only the intention to surrender all parental rights, obligations, and
claims to the child, and control over and possession of the child, but also the actual act of surrendering
such rights, obligations, claims, control, and possession. Abandonment means that the child’ s
parent(s):
Willfully forsake all parental rights, obligations, and claims to the child, as well as all control over
and possession of the child; and
Acted without intending to transfer or without transferring these rights to any specific person(s).
If the parent(s) released the child to a third party to provide custodial care prior to the adoption, the
third party was authorized under the child welfare laws of the foreign-sending country .
Abandonment does not include a release or relinquishment by one or both parents: 
Directly to the P AP;[5]
To an authorized third party for a specific adoption;
To a third party that is not authorized under the child welfare laws of the foreign-sending country
to accept released or relinquished children in anticipation of or preparation for adoption; or
For temporary placement in an orphanage if the parent(s) express an intention to retrieve the
child, are contributing or attempting to contribute to the support of the child, or otherwise exhibit
ongoing parental interest in the child.
Release to an Orphanage
U.S. immigration law generally considers a child whose parent(s) have unconditionally released him or
her to an authorized orphanage to be abandoned.
It is not uncommon for parents in some countries to entrust their children to the care of orphanages
temporarily without intending to abandon the child or for the child to be adopted. USCIS does not
consider such releases to be unconditional, and they do not meet the definition of abandoned under
U.S. immigration law .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 946/2618