3. Persons Paroled as Refugees Between April 1, 1980 and May 18, 1980
 Some aliens continued to be paroled into the United States for a few weeks after April 1, 1980. They
are to be treated the same as persons admitted under the former seventh preference (conditional
entrant) category .[11] Even though conditional entrance or parole of refugees was not permitted after
passage of the Refugee Act, legacy Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) may have done so in
error. Since the adjustment of status of such a person is not covered by the INA  or current
regulations, the of ficer should contact the International and Refugee Affairs Division at the Refugee,
Asylum, and International Operations Directorate (RAIO) for further guidance. 
F. Special Considerations for Refugee Adjustment of Status Applicants
Certain special considerations may apply to refugees seeking adjustment of status:
Refugees do not have to continue to meet the definition of “refugee” within the meaning of the
INA after admission and may still adjust status as a refugee.
Derivative refugees accompanying or following to join the principal refugee do not have to wait
until the principal refugee has adjusted status to adjust their own status. They are considered
refugees in their own right once admitted to the United States.
Derivative refugees do not have to maintain their familial relationship to the principal refugee
after admission to the United States to be eligible to adjust status. 
There is no bar to adjustment of status for refugees who have firmly resettled in a foreign country
subsequent to being admitted to the United States as refugees.
There is no bar to adjustment of status for a refugee who previously had the status of an
exchange visitor (J-1 and J-2 nonimmigrant),[12] and who is subject to the 2-year
foreign residence requirement under INA 212(e) , even if the applicant never met the foreign
residence requirement. The applicant is not required to show proof of compliance with or obtain
a waiver of the foreign residence requirement if applying to adjust status under INA 209.[13]
1. Relationship Issues
While reviewing a case, an of ficer may become aware that, at the time a derivative refugee was
admitted to the United States, he or she did not possess the requisite relationship to the principal
refugee and as such was not entitled to derivative refugee status at time of admission. In certain
instances, these applicants may be found inadmissible for fraud or misrepresentation because they
were questioned about their marital status and familial relationships during the Form I-590 interview or
interview for Form I-730  derivative refugee status, or at the port of entry .
Although the derivative refugees in each of the following examples have been admitted to the United
States as refugees, they were not eligible for that status when they were admitted because their status
was dependent upon their relationship to the principal, and the relationship did not exist or no longer
existed at the time of admission.[14] The most common scenarios are:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1793/2618