Term Definition
BusinesspersonAs defined in the NAFT A/USMCA, a citizen of Canada or Mexico who
is engaged in the trade of goods, the provision of services, or the
conduct of investment activities.
Engage in business
activities at a
professional levelThe performance of prearranged business activities for a U.S. entity ,
including an individual person.
It does not authorize the establishment of a business or practice in the
United States in which the professional will be, in substance, self-
employed. A professional is deemed to be self-employed if he or she
will be rendering services to a corporation or entity of which the
professional is the sole or controlling shareholder or owner .
Temporary entryAs defined in the NAFT A/USMCA, entry without the intent to establish
permanent residence.
The alien must satisfy the inspecting immigration of ficer that the
proposed stay is temporary .
A temporary period has a reasonable, finite end that does not equate
to permanent residence. To establish that the alien's entry will be
temporary , the alien must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
inspecting immigration of ficer that the work assignment in the United
States ends at a predictable time and that he or she will depart upon
completion of the assignment.
Citizen, with respect
to MexicoAs defined in NAFT A/USMCA  Annex 1608 , a national or a citizen
according to the existing provisions of Articles 30 and 34, respectively ,
of the Mexican Constitution.
B. Self-Employment
1. General Considerations
Canadian or Mexican citizens seeking to engage in self-employment in trade or investment activities in
the United States are not eligible for the TN nonimmigrant classification and instead must seek
classification as a Treaty Trader or Treaty Investor (E nonimmigrant).[6]
NAFT A Chapter 16, Annex 1603, Section B, Traders and Investors , establishes the appropriate
category of temporary entry for a Canadian or Mexican citizen seeking to develop and direct8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 625/2618