comprehensive business plan demonstrating how many jobs will be created and when the jobs will be
created. 
If the inputs into the model reflect expenditures, the investor must demonstrate that the expenditures
input is reasonable. Relevant documentation may include receipts and other financial records for
expenditures that have occurred and a detailed projection of sales, costs, and income projections such
as a pro-forma cash flow statement associated with the business plan for expenditures that will occur . 
If the inputs into the model reflect revenues, the investor must demonstrate the revenues input is
reasonable. Relevant documentation may include tax or other financial records for revenues that have
occurred or a detailed projection of sales, costs, and income projections such as a pro-forma income
statement associated with the business plan for revenues that will occur . 
In making the determination as to whether or not the immigrant investor has created the requisite
number of jobs, USCIS does not require that the jobs still be in existence at the time of the petition to
remove conditions adjudication in order to be credited to the investor . Instead, the job creation
requirement is met if the investor can show that at least 10 full-time jobs for qualifying employees were
created by the new commercial enterprise as a result of his or her investment and such jobs were
considered to be permanent jobs when created.[6]
Full-time positions will be allocated to immigrant investors based on the date their petition to remove
conditions was filed, unless otherwise stated in the relevant documents.[7] For example, if the new
commercial enterprise creates 25 jobs, yet there are three immigrant investors associated with the
new commercial enterprise, and the record is silent on the issue of allocation, the first two immigrant
investors to file the petition to remove conditions will each get to count 10 of the 25 jobs. The third
immigrant investor to file the petition to remove conditions is allocated the remaining five jobs.
Direct jobs that are intermittent, temporary , seasonal, or transient in nature do not qualify as
permanent full-time jobs. However , jobs that are expected to last for at least 2 years generally are not
considered intermittent, temporary , seasonal, or transient in nature. 
Although employment in some industries such as construction or tourism can be intermittent,
temporary , seasonal or transient, of ficers should not exclude jobs simply because they fall into such
industries. The focus of the adjudication will continue to be on whether the position, as described in
the petition, is continuous full-time employment. 
For example, if a petition reasonably describes the need for general laborers in a construction project
that is expected to last several years and would require a minimum of 35 hours per week over the
course of that project, the positions would meet the full-time employment requirement. However , if the
same project called for electrical workers to provide services during a small number of 5-week periods
over the course of the project, such positions would be deemed intermittent and not meet the definition
of full-time employment.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1311/2618