Demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history and principles
and form of government of the United States (civics).
Demonstrate good moral character for at least 3 years prior to filing the application until the time
of naturalization.
Attachment to the principles of the U.S. Constitution and well-disposed to the good order and
happiness of the United States during all relevant periods under the law .
The spouse of a U.S. citizen residing in the United States may also naturalize under the general
naturalization provisions for applicants who have been LPRs for at least 5 years.[2] In addition, in
some instances the spouse of a member of the U.S. armed forces applying pursuant to INA  319(a) or
INA 316(a) may be eligible for any naturalization proceeding abroad, to include interviews, filings,
oaths, ceremonies, or other proceedings relating to naturalization.[3]
B. Living in Marital Union for Spouses Residing in the United States
The spouse of a U.S. citizen residing in the United States must have been living in marital union with
his or her citizen spouse for at least 3 years immediately preceding the time of filing the naturalization
application. This provision requires that the spouse live in marital union with the citizen spouse during
the entire period of 3 years before filing.[4]
However , the statute does not require living in marital union for the period between the date of filing
the application and the date of naturalization (date applicant takes the Oath of Allegiance). The
corresponding regulation conflicts with the statute in stating that the spouse must have been living in
marital union with his or her citizen spouse for at least 3 years at the time of the examination on the
application, and not at the time of filing.
USCIS follows the language of the statute in requiring living in marital union only up until the time of
filing.[5] Accordingly , only the existence of a legally valid marriage is required from the date of filing the
application until the time of the applicant’ s naturalization.[6]
A person who was a spouse subjected to battery or extreme cruelty by their citizen spouse is exempt
from the marital union requirement.[7]
C. 3 Years of Continuous Residence
The spouse of a U.S. citizen residing in the United States must have continuously resided in the
United States as an LPR for at least 3 years immediately preceding the date of the filing the
application and up to the time of the Oath of Allegiance. Continuous residence involves the applicant
maintaining a permanent dwelling place in the United States for the required period of time. The
residence is the applicant’ s actual dwelling place regardless of his or her intentions to claim it as his or
her residence.[8]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2441/2618