If the self-petitioner establishes that the battery or extreme cruelty occurred prior to and during the
qualifying relationship, the of ficer may find that the self-petitioner has established the required
“connection” between the act or conviction and the battery or extreme cruelty , even if the act or
conviction occurred prior to the qualifying relationship.
Step 3: Determine Whether the Self-Petitioner W arrants a Finding of Good Moral Character in the
Exercise of Discretion
Whether a self-petitioner is a person of good moral character under the exception at INA 204(a)(1)(C)
is a discretionary determination made by USCIS. For example, even if the evidence establishes both
that a waiver for the self-petitioner ’s disqualifying act or conviction is available and that the requisite
connection exists between the disqualifying act or conviction and the battery or extreme cruelty ,
USCIS may nevertheless conclude that the severity or gravity of the self-petitioner ’s act or conviction
warrants a finding of a lack of good moral character .
H. Self-Petitioners Filing from Outside the United States
If self-petitioners are outside the United States when they file the self-petition, they must demonstrate
one of the following in addition to the eligibility requirements listed in this chapter:
The abusive U.S. citizen or LPR is employed abroad by the U.S. government;
The abusive U.S. citizen or LPR is a member of the U.S. uniformed services stationed outside
the United States; or
The claimed battery or extreme cruelty occurred in the United States.[154]
If USCIS approves the self-petition and a visa is available, the self-petitioner may apply for an
immigrant visa to enter the United States as an LPR.[155]
I. Derivative Beneficiaries
Self-petitioning spouses and children may include their child(ren) as derivative beneficiaries on the
self-petition.[156] Self-petitioning parents, however , are not eligible to confer derivative benefits to their
family members. If self-petitioning parents include a derivative on their self-petition, the self-petition
will not be denied. Any listed derivatives, however , are not eligible to derive status and do not receive
any benefit under the approved self-petition.
Derivative children must be unmarried and less than 21 years old at the time of filing and otherwise
qualify as the self-petitioner ’s child under immigration law .[157] The statutory definition of “child”
includes certain children born in or out of wedlock and certain legitimated children, adopted children,
and stepchildren.[158]
Self-petitioners may add an eligible child, including a child born after the self-petition was approved,
when the self-petitioner applies for an immigrant visa outside the United States or adjustment of status8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 774/2618