For example, a requestor may have applied for a travel document 5 months ago when they learned of
the event, but their case remains pending, and they must travel for an event which is now in 45 days,
such as for a:
Work or professional commitment (such as a meeting, conference, forum, seminar , or training);
Academic commitment (such as a study abroad program, research trip, forum, seminar ,
conference, or practicum); or
Personal commitment (such as a wedding or graduation).
The examples of travel-related emergencies provided above are not exhaustive. Of ficers should
review travel-related expedite requests on a case-by-case basis to determine if the need to travel is
pressing or critical.
A benefit requestor ’s desire to travel solely for vacation generally does not meet the definition of a
pressing or critical need to travel.
3. Nonprofit Organization Seeking Expedited T reatment
A nonprofit organization seeking to expedite a beneficiary’ s benefit request must demonstrate an
urgent need to expedite the case based on the beneficiary’ s specific role within the nonprofit in
furthering cultural or social interests (as opposed to the organization’ s role in furthering social or
cultural interests). Examples may include a medical professional urgently needed for medical research
related to a specific “social” U.S. interest (such as the COVID-19 pandemic or other socially impactful
research or project) or a university professor urgently needed to participate in a specific and imminent
cultural program. Another example is a religious organization that urgently needs a beneficiary’ s
specific services and skill set to continue a vital social outreach program. In such instances, the
religious organization must articulate why the respective beneficiary is specifically needed, as
opposed to pointing to a general shortage alone.
4. Expedited T reatment Based on Government Interests
Government interests refer to interests of any federal, state, tribal, territorial, or local government of
the United States.[5] This includes cases identified as urgent by the government because they involve
public interest, public safety , national interest, or national security interests. The request must be
made by a person who has authority to represent the agency or department, such as an of ficial,
manager , supervisor , or tribal leader , on the matter for which expedited treatment is being requested.
The request must demonstrate that the interests are pressing and substantive.
Where a federal agency or department identifies an articulable federal government interest in
accordance with these criteria, USCIS generally defers to that federal agency or department’ s
assessment.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 166/2618