USCIS relies on the expertise of the juvenile court in making child welfare decisions and does not
reweigh the evidence to determine if the child was subjected to abuse, neglect, abandonment, or a
similar basis under state law .
Under the Saravia Settlement Agreement, USCIS does not withhold consent based in whole or in part
on the fact that the state court did not consider or suf ficiently consider evidence of the petitioner ’s
gang af filiation when deciding whether to issue a predicate order or in making its determination that it
was not in the best interest of the child to return to his or her home country . USCIS does not use its
consent authority to reweigh the evidence that the juvenile court considered when it issued the
predicate order .[36]
USCIS recognizes that there may be some immigration motive for seeking the juvenile court order . For
example, the court may make determinations in separate hearings and the petitioner may request an
order that compiles the determinations of several orders into one order to establish eligibility for SIJ
classification. A special order issued to help clarify the determinations that were made so that USCIS
can determine the petitioner ’s eligibility for SIJ classification does not mean that the order is not bona
fide. USCIS may , however , withhold consent if evidence materially conflicts with the eligibility
requirements for SIJ classification.[37]
E. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Consent
If a petitioner is or was previously in the custody of HHS, and obtained a juvenile court order that also
altered the petitioner ’s custody status or placement while the petitioner is or was in HHS custody , the
petitioner must provide documentation of HHS’  consent to the juvenile court’ s jurisdiction.[38] HHS
consent is not required if the order simply restates the juvenile’ s placement in HHS custody .[39]
F. Inadmissibility and W aivers
Grounds of inadmissibility do not apply to the adjudication of the SIJ petition.[40] Therefore, a
petitioner does not need to apply for a waiver of any applicable grounds of inadmissibility in order to
be eligible for SIJ classification.
G. Family Members
Unlike some other immigrant visa petitions, SIJ classification does not allow the petitioner ’s family
members to be included on the petition as derivative beneficiaries. SIJ petitioners that have adjusted
status to that of a lawful permanent resident may petition for qualifying family members through the
family-based immigration process. However , a petitioner who adjusts status as a result of an SIJ
classification may not confer an immigration benefit to the petitioner ’s natural or prior adoptive
parents, even after naturalization.[41] This prohibition applies to a custodial parent when the juvenile
court has found reunification is not viable with the other parent.[42]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1414/2618