In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures.
See more
In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 43 - Consent to Reapply After Deportation or Removal (External)
Volume 10 - Employment Authorization
Part A - Employment Authorization Policies and Procedures
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
Aliens in the United States must obtain employment authorization before they may lawfully work in the
country . Working without authorization may lead to a number of negative consequences, such as DHS
terminating the person’ s immigration status, being barred from adjusting status to lawful permanent
residence, and DHS removing the person from the United States.[1]
Certain aliens automatically obtain employment authorization by virtue of their immigration status.
Others must af firmatively apply for employment authorization with USCIS. If USCIS approves an
Application for Employment Authorization ( Form I-765 ), USCIS also issues an employment
authorization document (EAD) as evidence of a person's authorization to work in the United States.
B. Background
In 1986, Congress enacted the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA)[2] in an ef fort to deter
illegal immigration to the United States. One of Congress’  strategies was to discourage unauthorized
employment, which Congress concluded was a significant magnet for illegal immigration. Because of
IRCA, employers must now verify the identity and eligibility of employees to work in the United States.
The U.S. government imposes penalties on employers that knowingly employ persons not authorized8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2188/2618