A grandfathered derivative beneficiary may also adjust under INA 245(i)  in his or her own right, on
some basis completely independent of the grandfathered principal beneficiary .[34] This is true whether
or not the grandfathered derivative beneficiary remains the grandfathered principal beneficiary’ s
spouse or child. For instance, a grandfathered derivative beneficiary spouse who becomes divorced
from the grandfathered principal beneficiary after the qualifying petition or application is filed is still a
grandfathered alien eligible to seek adjustment independently under 245(i). Similarly , a grandfathered
derivative beneficiary child who marries or reaches 21 years of age after the qualifying petition or
application is filed is still grandfathered and eligible to seek INA  245(i) adjustment on his or her own
basis through a dif ferent petition.
Example: Derivative Beneficiary Eligible After Divorce from Principal Beneficiary
Date Event
January 1, 2000An employer files a permanent labor certification application on behalf of a
married employee. The married employee is the principal beneficiary of
the permanent labor certification application. The application is determined
to be approvable when filed and the married employee alien is a
grandfathered alien. As the employee was married at the time the labor
certification application was filed, the employee’ s spouse is the derivative
beneficiary and is also a grandfathered alien.
January 1, 2003 The employee and spouse divorce.
Today The employee’ s former spouse is selected in the diversity visa program.
In this example, the employee is the grandfathered principal beneficiary for INA 245(i)  adjustment
because the qualifying permanent labor certification application was filed directly on the employee’ s
behalf before April 30, 2001. The employee’ s former spouse is a grandfathered derivative beneficiary
because they were married at the time the qualifying permanent labor certification application was
filed. The qualifying application serves to grandfather both the principal and derivative beneficiaries.
Therefore, as a grandfathered derivative beneficiary , the former spouse may apply for adjustment
under 245(i) based on being selected in the diversity visa program, regardless of the grandfathered
principal beneficiary’ s basis for adjustment and regardless of the fact that their marital relationship no
longer exists.
If a grandfathered derivative beneficiary is adjusting on a separate basis from the grandfathered
principal beneficiary , the grandfathered derivative beneficiary becomes the principal adjustment
applicant. As the principal applicant, the grandfathered derivative beneficiary’ s current spouse and
child(ren) may accompany (or follow-to-join) the applicant.[35]
3. Determining Whether An Adjustment Applicant Qualifies as Grandfathered Alien for 245(i)8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1610/2618