If the of ficer determines, after assessing all of the evidence, that the applicant has established at least
one of the above facts, then the applicant has successfully rebutted the inadmissibility finding. The
applicant has therefore met the burden of proving that he or she is not inadmissible on account of
fraud or willful misrepresentation. 
If the of ficer determines, after assessing all of the evidence, that the applicant has established none of
these facts, then the applicant has not successfully rebutted the inadmissibility finding. The
applicant is therefore inadmissible because he or she has not satisfied the burden of proof.[7]
Finally , if the of ficer finds that the evidence for and against a finding of fraud or willful
misrepresentation is of equal weight, then the applicant is inadmissible due to failure to meet the
burden of proof. As long as there is a reasonable evidentiary basis to conclude that an alien is
inadmissible for fraud or willful misrepresentation, and the applicant has not overcome that reasonable
basis with evidence, the of ficer should find the applicant inadmissible.
B. Procuring a Benefit under the INA
1. General
In order to be found inadmissible for fraud or willful misrepresentation, an alien must seek to procure,
have sought to procure, or have procured one of the following:  
An immigrant or nonimmigrant visa;
Other documentation;
Admission into the United States; or 
Other benefit provided under the INA.
The fraud or willful misrepresentation must have been made to an of ficial of the U.S. government,
generally an immigration or consular of ficer.[8]
2. Other Documentation
“Other documentation” refers to documents required when an alien applies for admission to the United
States. This includes, but is not limited to:
Re-entry permits;
Refugee travel documents;
Border crossing cards; and 
U.S. passports. 
Documents evidencing extension of stay are not considered entry documents.[9] Similarly , documents
such as petitions and labor certification forms are documents that are presented in support of a visa
application or applications for status changes. They are not, by themselves, entry documents and
therefore, they are also not considered “other documentation.” 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2061/2618