Expatriation of U.S. Citizen Spouse
An applicant is ineligible to naturalize as the spouse of a U.S. citizen if the U.S. citizen has expatriated
any time prior to the applicant taking the Oath of Allegiance for naturalization.[26]
3. Failure to be Living in Marital Union due to Separation
Legal Separation
A legal separation is a formal process by which the rights of a married couple are altered by a judicial
decree but without eliminating the marital relationship.[27] In most cases, after a legal separation, the
applicant will no longer be actually residing with his or her U.S. citizen spouse, and therefore will not
be living in marital union with the U.S. citizen spouse.
However , if the applicant and the U.S. citizen spouse continue to reside in the same household, the
marital relationship has been altered to such an extent by the legal separation that they will not be
considered to be living together in marital union.
Accordingly , an applicant is not living in marital union with a U.S. citizen spouse during any period of
time in which the spouses are legally separated.[28] An applicant who is legally separated from his or
her spouse during the time period in which he or she must be living in marital union is ineligible to
naturalize as the spouse of a U.S. citizen. 
Informal Separation 
In many instances, spouses will separate without obtaining a judicial order altering the marital
relationship or formalizing the separation. An applicant who is no longer actually residing with his or
her U.S. citizen spouse following an informal separation is not living in marital union with the U.S.
citizen spouse.
However , if the U.S. citizen spouse and the applicant continue to reside in the same household, an
officer must determine on a case-by-case basis whether an informal separation before the filing of the
naturalization application renders an applicant ineligible for naturalization as the spouse of a U.S.
citizen.[29] Under these circumstances, an applicant is not living in marital union with a U.S. citizen
spouse during any period of time in which the spouses are informally separated if such separation
suggests the possibility of marital disunity .
Factors to consider in making this determination may include:
The length of separation;
Whether the applicant and his or her spouse continue to support each other and their children (if
any) during the separation;
Whether the spouses intend to separate permanently; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2437/2618