A civil surgeon should inform USCIS of any change that is relevant to the civil surgeon designation
within 15 days of the change.[1]
If an of ficer at a USCIS field or district of fice receives a request to update the civil surgeon list, he or
she should forward the request to the National Benefits Center (NBC) for review . 
C. Maintaining the Civil Surgeon List
USCIS reviews all requests from civil surgeons to update contact information or to terminate the civil
surgeon designation. USCIS also updates the civil surgeon list accordingly , as well as removes civil
surgeons whose designations have been suspended or revoked. 
1. Request to Update Contact Information
If a civil surgeon’ s request to update contact information involves a move to a new state, then
evidence of medical licensure in the new state[2] must accompany the request before the of ficer may
approve it. If this evidence is missing, the of ficer may request this information through the issuance of
a Request for Evidence (RFE). 
2. Termination, Suspension, or Revocation
If a civil surgeon requests to be removed from the civil surgeon list or if USCIS determines designation
should be suspended or revoked, the of ficer should annotate the date and reason for removal.
Records of former civil surgeons should be retained internally; the information may be relevant, for
instance, to the adjudication of a medical examination the civil surgeon completed before he or she
was removed from the civil surgeon list or if the physician re-applies for civil surgeon designation in
the future.
3. Updates and Review of Civil Surgeon List
USCIS ensures the civil surgeon list is updated in a timely manner to reflect any changes in a civil
surgeon’ s contact information or designation status. In addition, USCIS performs a review of the civil
surgeon list on a bi-annual basis, at a minimum, to ensure that all publicly available civil surgeon
information is current and accurate.
If during this review USCIS learns that a civil surgeon is no longer performing immigration medical
examinations in the location specified as part of the designation, or is no longer practicing medicine at
all, USCIS may terminate the civil surgeon designation and remove the physician from the list. USCIS
should follow regular revocation procedures.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See uscis.gov/i-910  for more information on how to update contact information.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1949/2618