The job of fered to the beneficiary in the successor petition must have been, and must continue to be,
located within the operational division or unit that is transferred from the predecessor to the successor .
The three successor-in-interest factors must also be met.
Example
The manufacturing division of a chemical wholesale corporation, which uses plant facilities and
equipment, management, accounting, and operational structures that are readily divisible from the
general structure of the predecessor entity might qualify if the manufacturing division (including all
relevant divisible assets) is transferred to another business entity that continues to engage in chemical
manufacturing.
Example
Another example might involve the sale of a branch of fice of a bank to another entity engaged in the
provision of banking services as a member organization in the banking industry .
Conversely , the sale of a patented chemical formula by Company A to Company B, which allows
Company B to manufacture a product using the chemical formula, does not create a successor-in-
interest relationship between the two companies, even if Company A ceases to manufacture the
product and starts to purchase the product from Company B.
This transaction did not result in the transfer of a clearly defined business unit. Rather , Company A
merely sold the manufacturing rights for a given product to Company B without the transfer of the
other related assets located within its business unit.
Requests for Evidence
USCIS may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) to the petitioner if the petitioner has failed to
demonstrate a qualified successor-in-interest relationship. The RFE explains why the permanent labor
certification that was originally provided in support of the petition is not valid for the prof fered position,
based on one or more of the reasons outlined above, and other reasons, if any . If the petitioner does
not provide a new original permanent labor certification that was valid at the time of filing of the petition
or suf ficient evidence to overcome the concerns outlined in the RFE, then USCIS denies the petition.
G. Portability on Successor-In-Interest Filing Requirements
The American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act (AC21)[14] allows for certain petitions to
remain valid even if the beneficiary is no longer seeking to adjust status based on employment with
the petitioner that originally filed the petition on that beneficiary’ s behalf.
In cases where a beneficiary is eligible for portability based on AC21, a successor entity need not file a
new petition on the beneficiary's behalf, provided that all the AC21 requirements have been met.[15]
For instance, the beneficiary would have to show for purposes of adjustment that the successor job8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1100/2618