Burden of Proof
In all cases, applicants have the burden of proving eligibility for a waiver and must demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that they are fully qualified for the waiver .[15]
Officers generally should not apply leniency in the adjudication of exceptional hardship waivers,
including in cases where the applicant uses a marriage occurring in the United States, or the birth of a
child or children, to support the contention that the applicant’ s departure from this country would cause
personal hardship.[16]
3. Decision
If the applicant cannot establish a prima facie case of exceptional hardship through the documentary
evidence submitted, USCIS does not send the case to DOS-WRD, but, rather , denies the application.
Applicants may appeal this determination to the AAO.
If the applicant establishes a prima facie case of exceptional hardship, but DOS-WRD does not
recommend approval, USCIS denies the application. There is no appeal right from this type of denial
because the unfavorable recommendation came from DOS-WRD, not from USCIS.
If the applicant establishes a prima facie case of exceptional hardship and DOS-WRD recommends
approval, USCIS approves the waiver and notifies the applicant and the applicant's legal
representative, if applicable, of the approval.
C. Persecution
J-1 exchange visitors subject to the foreign residence requirement may apply for a waiver if they would
be subject to persecution in their respective home countries on account of race, religion, or political
opinion. The persecutor may be either the government itself or a group that the government is
unwilling or unable to control.
The standard for a J-1 persecution waiver requires the exchange visitor to show that they would be
subject to persecution on account of race, religion, or political opinion.[17] This is a higher standard
than persecution claims filed under the asylum provisions of the INA.[18] Notably , INA 212(e) requires
the applicant to establish that the applicant would be subject to persecution upon a return to the home
country , whereas an applicant under INA 208 must only establish a well-founded fear of persecution.
1. Evidence
To request a foreign residence requirement waiver based on persecution, applicants must file the
waiver application with USCIS.[19] Applicants must submit evidence that they are in fact subject to the
requirement and that they would be subject to persecution in their home country because of their race,
religion, or political opinion.[20]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 354/2618