Each approved case is given a class of admission (COA) that identifies the section of law the applicant
used to adjust status to a lawful permanent resident. For abbreviation purposes, a symbol or code
represents that classification.
Written notice of approval is mailed to the applicant and attorney or authorized representative, as
applicable. Upon approval, the of ficer must confirm that the information is up-to-date and accurate in
the relevant systems to ensure accurate statistical reporting and card production. In cases where an
officer approved both the underlying petition and adjustment application, the of ficer should verify that
the underlying petition shows as being approved in the system before approving the adjustment
application.
If the of ficer determines that the case is approvable during the interview and the applicant anticipates
immediate emergency travel, the of ficer may place a stamp as proof of temporary permanent resident
status in the applicant’ s passport, per local of fice guidelines. The stamp must have a dry seal af fixed
to be valid for travel.
B. Notices of Intent to Deny
If an of ficer is basing a decision in whole or in part on information of which the applicant is unaware or
could not reasonably be expected to be aware, the of ficer must issue a Notice of Intent to Deny
(NOID).[1] The NOID provides the applicant an opportunity to review and respond to the information,
unless the information is classified.[2]
C. Denials
An adjustment application must be denied for ineligibility . The application may also be denied for
discretionary reasons, if applicable. Upon denial of a case, the of ficer must update ICMS and CLAIMS,
and issue a notice of denial. Automatic denial notices are not issued by the systems. 
Denial on Basis of Ineligibility or for Discretionary Reasons
Basis of Denial Denial Notice Should …
Ineligibility Explain what eligibility requirements are not met and why they are not met
Discretionary
Reasons
(if applicable)Explain the positive and negative factors considered, the relative weight given
to each factor individually and collectively , and why the negative factors
outweigh the positive factors
 
In addition, a denial notice should:
Provide the reasons for the denial in clear language that the applicant can understand; 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1530/2618