An applicant must have resided in the United States when the qualifying relative died, and continues
to reside in the United States to adjust status based on the deceased qualifying relative.[9]
INA 204(l)  defines an applicant’ s residence as his or her “principal, actual dwelling place in fact,
without regard to intent.”[10] If the applicant’ s residence was in the United States at the required times,
the applicant meets the residency requirement.
An applicant who was temporarily abroad when the qualifying relative died does not need to prove that
he or she still resides in the United States. Further , the statutory definition of residence does not
require the applicant to show that his or her presence in the United States is lawful. Execution of a
removal order , however , terminates an alien’ s residence in the United States.
3. Derivatives
For purposes of derivative beneficiaries,[11] as long as any one surviving beneficiary of a covered
petition meets the residence requirement, then the petition may be approved despite the death of the
qualifying relative. All the beneficiaries may immigrate to the same extent that would have been
permitted if the qualifying relative had not died.[12] It is not necessary for each beneficiary to meet the
residence requirements in order to remain eligible to adjust.
B. Effect on Adjustment Application
The of ficer may approve an adjustment application that was pending when the qualifying relative died
if: 
The applicant meets the residency requirement;[13]
 The underlying petition is approved before the death of the qualifying relative, the underlying
petition is approved under INA 204(l) , the pre-death approval of the underlying petition is
reinstated,[14] or the alien was admitted as a derivative T nonimmigrant or as a derivative asylee
under INA  208(b)(3); and
 The applicant meets all other adjustment requirements.
If a beneficiary was eligible to adjust at the time of filing, that eligibility remains despite the subsequent
death of a qualifying relative.
Applicants who seek adjustment based on a derivative asylum grant or as a derivative T nonimmigrant
may also still be eligible to apply for adjustment in light of INA 204(l) , despite the death of the
qualifying relative. However , the applicant must establish eligibility for adjustment apart from the
qualifying relative’ s death.
INA 204(l)  does not limit or waive any other eligibility requirements or adjustment bars that apply , other
than the requirement for a petitioner or principal beneficiary . Therefore, the applicant must have been8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1512/2618