Moreover , evidence that the abuse victim sought safe-haven in a domestic violence shelter or similar
refuge may also be relevant, as may a combination of documents such as a photograph of the visibly
injured self-petitioner supported by af fidavits.[115] Evidence of non-abusive acts may also be
submitted to establish and demonstrate a pattern of abuse and violence.[116]
The self-petitioner is encouraged to submit a detailed personal statement as evidence supporting the
self-petition. The self-petitioner ’s personal statement should provide as much detailed information as
possible addressing specific incidents of battery or extreme cruelty .
F. Residence with the Abusive Relative
The self-petitioner must reside or have resided with the abuser in the past to be eligible for the self-
petition. USCIS no longer requires the self-petitioner to have resided with the abuser during the
qualifying relationship.[117] Residence is defined as the person’ s general place of abode or the
principal, actual dwelling place of the self-petitioner without regard to intent.[118] A self-petitioner
cannot meet the residency requirement by merely visiting the abuser ’s home while maintaining a
general place of abode or a principal dwelling place elsewhere.[119]
Self-petitioners must have resided with the abuser at any point prior to filing the self-petition or reside
with the abuser when they file the self-petition. The self-petitioner is not required, however , to have
resided with the abuser for any specific length of time, to have resided with the abuser in the United
States, or to have resided with the abuser during the qualifying relationship.[120] There is also no
requirement for self-petitioners to be living with the abuser at the time they file the self-petition or , for
self-petitioning spouses and parents, when the abuse occurred.[121]
For self-petitioning children, there is a requirement that they resided with the abuser when the abuse
occurred.[122] However , residence for a child may also include any period of visitation.[123]
If self-petitioners are in the United States at the time they file the self-petition, the shared residence
can have occurred either in or outside the United States.[124]
Examples of evidence demonstrating shared residence with the abusive U.S. citizen or LPR may
include but are not limited to:
Leases, deeds, mortgages, or rental agreements listing the self-petitioner and the U.S. citizen or
LPR as occupants or owners;
Insurance policies listing a common address for the self-petitioner and U.S. citizen or LPR;
Utility invoices listing a common address for the self-petitioner and U.S. citizen or LPR;
Bank statements or financial documents listing a common address for the self-petitioner and
U.S. citizen or LPR;
Photocopies of income tax filings listing the self-petitioner and the U.S. citizen or LPR;
School records listing the parent and address of record;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 768/2618