G. Application and Evidence
Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 )
To apply for naturalization, the spouse of a U.S. citizen employed abroad must submit an Application
for Naturalization ( Form N-400 ) in accordance with the form instructions and with the required fee.[21]
The applicant should check the “other” eligibility option on the naturalization application and indicate
that he or she is applying pursuant to INA  319(b) on the basis of marriage to a U.S. citizen who is or
will be regularly stationed abroad. 
Evidence of Spouse’ s United States Citizenship
Under this provision, the burden is on the applicant to establish that he or she is married to
a U.S. citizen.[22] A spouse of a U.S. citizen must submit with the application evidence to establish
the U.S. citizenship of his or her spouse.[23]
Evidence of U.S. citizenship may include:
Certificate of birth in the United States; 
Department of State Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240); 
Certificate of Citizenship; 
Certificate of Naturalization; and 
Valid and unexpired United States Passport.
If an of ficial civil record cannot be produced, secondary evidence may be accepted on a case-by-case
basis. An of ficer has the right to request an original record if there is doubt as to the authenticity of the
record.[24]
Evidence of Citizen Spouse’ s Employment Abroad
Along with his or her naturalization application, the applicant must submit evidence demonstrating
the spouse’ s qualifying employment abroad.[25]
Such evidence may include:
The name of the employer and either the nature of the employer ’s business or the ministerial,
religious, or missionary activity in which the employer is engaged;
Whether the employing entity is owned in whole or in part by United States interests;
Whether the employing entity is engaged in whole or in part in the development of the foreign
trade and commerce of the United States;
The nature of the activity in which the citizen spouse is engaged; and
The anticipated period of employment abroad.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2448/2618