The filing location for an adjustment application is based on the filing category of the applicant. An
applicant must verify the filing location by accessing current instructions on USCIS.gov  prior to filing.
USCIS may relocate an application filed at the wrong location at its discretion or reject the application
for improper filing.
2. Signature Requirements
All applications must be properly signed by the applicant.[5]
Acceptable and Unacceptable Signatures
Acceptable Unacceptable
Original signature
Handwritten “X,” or similar mark, in ink (including a
fingerprint, if unable to write)
Abbreviated signature, if that is the normal
signature
Signature of parent or legal guardian of benefit
requestor if requestor is under 14 years of age
Signature by the benefit requestor ’s legal guardian,
surrogate, or person with a valid durable power of
attorney or similar legally binding document[6]
An original signature on the benefit request that is
later photocopied, scanned, faxed, or similarly
reproduced, unless otherwise required by form
instructions
Electronic signature[7]Typed name on signature line
 Signature by an attorney or
representative signing for the
requestor or requestor's child
Signature created by a typewriter ,
word processor , stamp, auto-pen,
or similar device[8]
3. Visa Availability Requirement
Generally , aliens seeking adjustment under INA 245(a)  may only file an adjustment application when
an immigrant visa number is available in the classification under which they qualify .[9]
Immediate relatives of U.S. citizens are not subject to numerical limitations. Therefore, an immigrant
visa is always immediately available to immediate relatives at the time they file an adjustment
application. 
In contrast, applicants seeking adjustment under an employment-based or family-based preference
category must generally wait until a visa is immediately available before they may file their adjustment
application.[10] These applicants can determine if a visa is available and when to file their adjustment
application by referring to the U.S. Department of State (DOS) Visa Bulletin . 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1441/2618