indicating as part of the cancellation request, that they have received public benefits. Regardless of
the source of the information, USCIS investigates the allegation of the public charge bond breach.
Handling Information Prohibited from Disclosure to the Obligor
When investigating the information received about public benefits receipt, USCIS is required to send
all communications relating to the bond to all parties involved, including the obligor , the agent or co-
obligor , and all parties’  representatives, if any . Before sending any communication regarding the bond
breach, USCIS consults the Of fice of the Chief Counsel (OCC) to determine whether any information
USCIS has would be protected by law from the disclosure to the obligor .
If the information may not be disclosed by law , USCIS may not address it in the communication and
use it for purposes of the public charge breach determination. Information that is not prohibited from
disclosure should be included in the communication to all parties.
2. Adjudication
A bond breach exists because the alien did not comply with the conditions of the bond; however ,
USCIS must declare the bond breached by notifying the obligor . Before the bond can be declared
breached, USCIS must determine whether the information supports a finding that any conditions
imposed by the bond were breached.
If USCIS finds that there is insuf ficient information to determine whether a breach occurred, USCIS
should request additional information from the alien or the obligor . However , if the evidence USCIS
possesses supports a finding of a breach, then USCIS should inform the obligor and an agent or co-
obligor of USCIS’  intention to declare the bond breached by issuing a Notice of Intent to Declare the
Public Charge Bond Breached. The notice must, at a minimum, comply with the following guidelines:
Be suf ficiently specific to give the obligor or the agent or co-obligor the opportunity to respond
and submit rebuttal evidence;
Include all documentation received that supports the breach determination and is by law
permitted to be disclosed to the obligor or agent or co-obligor . Any information that is prohibited,
by law , from being disclosed should be redacted and may not be used to support the bond
breach. USCIS should consult OCC before sending the notice to avoid inadvertent disclosure;
and
Include a date by when the obligor must respond and submit rebuttal evidence.
USCIS must also send a copy of any notification to the obligor or co-obligor regarding the breach to
the alien and the alien's representative, if any .
3. Determination
After receiving the obligor's response to the Notice of Intent to Declare the Public Charge Bond
Breached, USCIS determines whether the obligor ’s response and any evidence submitted to rebut the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2044/2618