DOL’s standard for Schedule A, Group II designation is therefore somewhat similar to that used to
classify a person under the employment-based 1st preference (EB-1A) category (for immigrants of
extraordinary ability). Despite this similarity , the standard for the EB-1A  category is dif ferent than the
standard for Schedule A, Group II designation. Therefore, of ficers should take care not to erroneously
apply the standard for the EB-1A  category to a request for Schedule A, Group II designation.[59]
The granting of Schedule A, Group II designation is separate from the adjudication of the immigrant
visa petition. Eligibility for Schedule A, Group II designation does not guarantee approval of the
petition itself, which must be adjudicated under the relevant regulations. Meeting the requirements for
Schedule A designation only means that the petition met the permanent labor certification requirement.
Officers must still make a separate determination on whether the position and the beneficiary meet the
requirements for the requested classification. Conversely , meeting the eligibility requirements for the
classification under the USCIS definition does not establish eligibility for Schedule A, Group II
designation under DOL ’s regulations.
Minimum Job Requirements
Officers should ensure that the actual education, training, and experience needed to perform the job
listed in Item H of ET A Form 9089 reflect the true minimum requirements of the position.
For Schedule A positions, the petitioner submits an uncertified ET A Form 9089 concurrently with the
petition directly with USCIS. Therefore, in Schedule A cases, USCIS, and not DOL, reviews the ET A
Form 9089 using DOL  regulations. The duties shown on the permanent labor certification should be
appropriate for a Schedule A occupation (such as a position that requires licensure as a professional
nurse, licensure as a physical therapist, or performance of a worker of exceptional ability). If
necessary , the of ficer may issue a Request for Evidence to confirm the precise minimum job
requirements.
Self-Petitions Not Allowed
An alien may not self-petition for Schedule A, Group II designation. Each request for Schedule A
designation requires a job of fer, and a petition that includes a request for such designation filed by a
U.S. employer .
H. Filing Requirements
For all Schedule A occupations, an employer must apply for permanent labor certification with USCIS.
A USCIS denial is conclusive and is not reviewable by the Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals
(BALCA) under the review procedures provided in regulations.[60]
DOL does not certify any occupation that is a Schedule A, Group I occupation under the basic
permanent labor certification process.[61] However , if USCIS denies a permanent labor certification8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1132/2618