The child of a service member who is on of ficial orders authorizing the child to accompany and reside
with that parent is not required to be an LPR or to have any other kind of lawful admission in the
United States. The child may complete his or her entire naturalization process, to include filing and
oath, while residing abroad.[45]
6. Application and Filing
Form N-600K , Application for Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322
To apply for citizenship for eligible children who live abroad and meet the requirements under INA 322,
applicants must submit an Application for Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322
(Form N-600K ) in accordance with the instructions on the form and with appropriate fee.[46]
Evidence of Residence Abroad
The applicant may show that the child resides abroad on of ficial orders with the U.S. citizen-parent
service member by submitting a copy of the PCS orders that include the child’ s name.
If the PCS orders do not specifically name the applicant beyond reference to “child” or “dependent,”
then also include a copy of the service member ’s Form DD1 172 (DEERS Enrollment), naming the
child.
Filing Location
Applicants must submit Form N-600K  in accordance with the instructions on the form. USCIS will
permit such applications to be filed with the USCIS overseas of fice having jurisdiction over the
applicant’ s overseas residence.[47]
D. Naturalization for Surviving Spouse, Child, or Parent of Service Member
(INA 319(d))
The spouse, child, or parent of a deceased U.S. citizen member of the U.S. armed forces who died
during a period of his or her honorable service may be eligible for naturalization as the surviving
relative of the service member . This includes surviving relatives of service members who were granted
posthumous citizenship.[48]
The surviving spouse must have been living in marital union with the U.S. citizen service member
spouse and must not have been legally separated at the time of his or her death. The spouse,
however , remains eligible for naturalization if the spouse has remarried since the service member ’s
death.[49]
The surviving spouse, child, or parent must meet the general naturalization requirements, except for
the residence or physical presence requirements in the United States.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2565/2618