officer first must verify that the citizen grandparent, the citizen parent’ s mother or father , is a U.S.
citizen at the time of filing. If the grandparent has died, the grandparent must have been a U.S. citizen
and met the physical presence requirements at the time of his or her death.
Like in the case of the citizen parent, the of ficer also must ensure that:
The U.S. citizen grandparent has been physically present in the United States or its outlying
possessions for at least 5 years; and
The U.S. citizen grandparent met such physical presence for at least 2 years after he or she
reached 14 years of age. 
Like the citizen parent, a grandparent’ s physical presence is calculated in the aggregate and includes
time accrued in the United States during periods when the grandparent was not a U.S. citizen.
D. Temporary Presence by Lawful Admission and Status in United States
1. Temporary Presence and Status Requirements
In most cases, the citizenship process for a child residing abroad cannot take place solely overseas.
The child is required to be lawfully admitted to United States, in any status, and be physically
present in the United States;[11]
The child is required to maintain the lawful status that he or she was admitted under while in
the United States;[12] and
The child is required to take the Oath of Allegiance in the United States unless the oath
requirement is waived.[13]
2. Exception for Child of U.S. Citizen Service Member of the U.S. Armed Forces
Certain children of U.S. citizen members of the U.S. armed forces are not required to be lawfully
admitted to or physically present in the United States.[14]
E. Children of U.S. Government Employees and Members of the Armed Forces
Employed or Stationed Outside the United States
In addition to certain provisions for children of U.S. armed forces members and U.S. government
employees stationed or employed outside the United States under INA 320, such U.S. citizen parents
may apply for U.S. citizenship under INA 322 on behalf of their children under age 18 (if the children
have not acquired citizenship under INA 320).[15] Children of members of the U.S. armed forces who
are accompanying their parents outside of the United States on of ficial orders may be eligible to
complete all aspects of the naturalization proceedings outside the United States. This includes
interviews, filings, oaths, ceremonies, or other proceedings relating to naturalization.[16]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2505/2618