Moral depravity or criminal tendencies reflected by a single serious crime or an ongoing or
continuing criminal record, with attention to the nature, scope, seriousness, and recent
occurrence of criminal activity .[61]
Findings of juvenile delinquency;[62]
Compliance with immigration laws;[63]
Previous instances of fraud or false testimony in dealings with USCIS or any government
agency;
Marriage to a U.S. citizen or LPR for the primary purpose of circumventing immigration laws;[64]
Other indicators of an applicant or beneficiary’ s character .[65]
This is a non-exhaustive list of factors; the of ficer may consider any relevant fact in the discretionary
analysis.
3. Weighing Factors
The act of exercising discretion involves weighing both positive and negative factors and considering
the totality of the circumstances in the case before making a decision. Whether a favorable exercise of
discretion is warranted is case-specific and depends on the evidence of positive and negative factors
submitted by the requestor . As the negative factors grow more serious, a favorable exercise of
discretion may not be warranted without the existence of unusual or outstanding equities in the case.
[66]
Totality of the Circumstances: Evaluating the Case-Specific Considerations for Each Factor
An of ficer must consider the totality of the facts and circumstances of each individual case involving
discretionary benefit requests. To do so, of ficers should ensure discretionary factors are considered in
the context of all factors in the case.
There is no formula for determining the weight to be given a specific positive or negative
factor . Officers should not attempt to assign numbers or points to a specific factor to determine if one
factor is more or less favorable than another . Officers should consider each factor separately and then
all the factors as a whole. The negative and positive factors should be balanced against each other
and then evaluated cumulatively .[67] The weight given to each factor may vary depending on the facts
of a particular case as well as the relationship of the factor to other factors in the analysis.
Discretionary factors are often interrelated. Of ficers must therefore determine whether each particular
factor is positive or negative and how it af fects the other factors under consideration. Some factors are
generally given more weight than others. A small number of positive factors may overcome a larger
number of negative factors, and vice versa, depending on the specific factors.
For example, when weighing the positive and negative factors, the of ficer should not consider the
various factors individually , in isolation from one another .[68] When considering each factor8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 304/2618