These interview criteria may be modified in response to developing circumstances and concerns. The
additional criteria for adjustment of status applications filed by aliens who are asylees with specific
characteristics help ensure program integrity and improve the detection of fraud, misrepresentation,
national security threats, and public safety risks.[5]
C. W aiver Instructions
When the of ficer determines that an alien is inadmissible and a waiver is available, the of ficer may
grant the waiver without requiring submission of an Application by Refugee for W aiver of
Inadmissibility Grounds ( Form I-602 ) if:
The alien is inadmissible under a ground of inadmissibility that may be waived (other than
health-related grounds);
USCIS records and other information available to the of ficer contain suf ficient information to
assess eligibility for a waiver;
There is no evidence to suggest that negative factors would adversely impact the exercise of
discretion; and
It is appropriate to grant a waiver .
If the adjudicating of ficer determines that a waiver application ( Form I-602 ) is not required, the of ficer
should indicate that the waiver has been granted by annotating on the adjustment of status application
the particular inadmissibility that has been waived. The of ficer may use a written annotation, stamp, or
pre-printed label to indicate the specific inadmissibility ground that is being waived in any open space
on the face of the adjustment application. 
An of ficer’s signature and approval stamp on the adjustment application also serves as the signature
and approval of the waiver for any waived grounds of inadmissibility specified on the face of the
adjustment application. W aivers granted because the vaccinations were not medically appropriate or
other blanket waivers for medical grounds do not require a waiver annotation on the adjustment
application or the Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ). All
others require an annotation. 
When a waiver application is required, the of ficer should stamp the waiver application approved, check
the block labeled “W aiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility is Granted,” and make the appropriate
endorsements in the space provided. 
In both instances, there is no need for a separate approval notice since the approval of the adjustment
of status application also indicates the approval of the waiver or the waiver application.
If the alien is statutorily ineligible for a waiver (that is, the alien is inadmissible under a ground of
inadmissibility that cannot be waived) or if there are suf ficient negative factors to warrant a
discretionary denial of the waiver application, the of ficer denies the waiver application and specifies
the reason(s) for denying the waiver in the denial of the adjustment of status application.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1825/2618