American firm or corporation engaged in whole or in part in the development of foreign trade and
commerce of the United States, or a subsidiary thereof;
Public international organization in which the United States participates by treaty or statute;[14]
Authorized to perform the ministerial or priestly functions of a religious denomination having a
bona fide organization within the United States; or
Engaged solely as a missionary by a religious denomination or by an interdenominational
mission organization having a bona fide organization within the United States. 
D. Calculating Period “Regularly Stationed Abroad”
A person applying for naturalization based on marriage to a U.S. citizen employed abroad must
establish that his or her citizen spouse is regularly stationed abroad. A citizen spouse is regularly
stationed abroad if he or she engages in qualifying employment abroad for at least one year .[15] Both
the statute and its corresponding regulation are silent on when to begin calculating the specified
period regularly stationed abroad.[16]
As a matter of policy , USCIS calculates the period of qualifying employment abroad from the time the
applicant spouse properly files for naturalization.[17] However , this policy does not alter the
requirement that the applicant must intend to reside abroad with the U.S. citizen spouse after
naturalization.[18]
Accordingly , the spouse of the U.S. citizen employed abroad may naturalize if his or her U.S. citizen’ s
qualifying employment abroad is scheduled to last for at least one year at the time of filing, even if less
than one year of such employment remains at the time of the naturalization interview or Oath of
Allegiance provided that the spouse remains employed abroad at the time of naturalization.
The burden is on the applicant to establish that his or her U.S. citizen’ s qualifying employment abroad
is scheduled to last for at least one year from the time of filing.
E. Exception to Continuous Residence and Physical Presence Requirements
Spouses of U.S. citizens who are regularly stationed abroad under qualifying employment may be
eligible to file for naturalization immediately after obtaining LPR status in the United States. Such
spouses are not required to have any prior period of residence or specified period of physical
presence within the United States in order to qualify for naturalization.[19]
F. In the United States for Examination and Oath of Allegiance
A spouse of a U.S. citizen who is regularly stationed abroad under qualifying employment is required
to be in the United States pursuant to an admission as an LPR for the naturalization examination and
the Oath of Allegiance for naturalization.[20]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2447/2618