recognized by the juvenile court) that it would not be in the best interest of the petitioner to be returned
to the country of nationality or last habitual residence of the petitioner or the petitioner ’s parents.[23]
This requires the juvenile court to make an individualized assessment and consider the factors that it
normally takes into account when making best interest determinations, and the record should reflect
the factual basis for the juvenile court’ s determination.
The standards for making best interest determinations may vary between states, and the court may
consider a number of factors related to the circumstances of the child and the circumstances and
capacity of the child's potential caregiver(s).[24] The child's safety and well-being are typically the
paramount concern.  For example, if  the court places the child with a person in the United States under
state law governing the juvenile court dependency or custody proceedings, and the  order includes
facts reflecting  that the caregiver has provided a loving home, bonded  with  the child ,  and is the best
person available to provide for the child ,  this would likely constitute a suf ficient factual basis in support
of a qualifying best interest determination to warrant DHS consent.  The analysis would not change
even if the chosen caregiver is a parent. USCIS defers to the juvenile court in making this
determination and as such does not require the court to conduct any analysis other than what is
required under state law .[25]
The juvenile court may make the required determination that it is not in the petitioner ’s best interest to
be returned to the petitioner ’s or the petitioner ’s parents’  country of nationality or last habitual
residence. However , other judicial or administrative bodies authorized or recognized by a juvenile
court, such as a state child welfare agency , may also make this required determination. If a particular
juvenile court establishes or endorses an alternate process for a best interest determination, a
determination from that process may satisfy this requirement.[26]
4. Validity of Order
Jurisdiction under State Law
All determinations in the juvenile court order must have been properly issued under state law to
establish eligibility for SIJ classification. This includes the need for the juvenile court[27] to have
jurisdiction under state law to make the required judicial determinations about the custody and care
and/or dependency of the juvenile.[28] For example, a state juvenile court may not be able to take
jurisdiction and issue a qualifying dependency or custody order for a person who is no longer a
juvenile under the state’ s dependency or custody laws even though the federal statute allows a
petitioner to file for SIJ classification until the age of 21. The state law definition of juvenile controls
jurisdiction to determine dependency or custody proceedings before the juvenile court. There is
nothing in USCIS guidance that should be construed as instructing juvenile courts on how to apply
their own state law .
Continuing Jurisdiction8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1412/2618