A public charge bond is a contract between the U.S. government (USCIS) and the obligor . A contract is
generally not ef fective until both parties accept the contract. USCIS accepts a bond when the
designated USCIS authority signs the public charge bond on behalf of the U.S. government.[7]
In general, before a public charge bond can be endorsed with the signature of the authorized
designated authority , USCIS must ensure that the public charge bond meets the regulatory
requirements,[8] is submitted in accordance with instructions outlined in the form’ s instructions and the
NOID, and that the appropriate bond amount has been paid. Otherwise, the bond may be rejected
upon submission or ultimately deemed insuf ficient.
Additionally , the conditions of the public charge bond are outlined in Form I-945  and in the NOID
issued by USCIS. The obligor submitting the Form I-945 may not alter these terms in any way . USCIS
does not accept a public charge bond as suf ficient and acceptable if:
The obligor or alien submits the Form I-945 with an attachment or rider that contains additional
conditions or otherwise alters the terms of the public charge bond;[9]
The obligor physically alters the terms contained on Form I-945;[10] or
The obligor submits the bond on a contract other than Form I-945.[11]
1. Accepting the Bond
If USCIS determines that the public charge bond meets the regulatory requirements, the requirements
outlined in the form’ s instructions, and in the NOID, USCIS may forward the public charge bond
documentation to the designated USCIS authority for signature and acceptance of the public charge
bond. Once the bond is signed and accepted, USCIS must issue a receipt.[12]
2. Issuing a Receipt for Accepted Bonds
Once the bond is signed by the designated USCIS authority and accepted, the obligor , the authorized
agent (in the case of a surety bond), any representative, and the alien and the alien’ s representative, if
any, are notified that the bond has been accepted. The of ficer should also provide a receipt to the
obligor and a copy of the receipt to the applicant and their representative (if any).
Because USCIS accepted the public charge bond, the of ficer adjudicating the adjustment of status
application should proceed with the final adjudication of the adjustment. If the applicant is otherwise
eligible for adjustment of status at the time the public charge bond is accepted by USCIS, then the
adjustment of status application may be approved.[13]
3. Bond Not Accepted
If the public charge bond does not meet the regulatory requirements, the requirements outlined in the
form’ s instructions, or in the NOID, USCIS cannot accept the public charge bond and denies the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2040/2618