requestor ’s burden to overcome.[13] A requestor cannot simply assert that primary evidence does not
exist.
In the absence of primary evidence as required by regulation,[14] the requestor must:
Demonstrate that the required document does not exist or cannot be obtained by providing a
written statement from the appropriate issuing authority attesting to the fact that no primary
record exists and the reason the record does not exist;[15] and
Submit secondary evidence that overcomes the unavailability of the primary evidence.
In the absence of primary and secondary evidence as required by regulation,[16] the requestor must:
Demonstrate that the required document does not exist or cannot be obtained by providing a
written statement from the appropriate issuing authority attesting to the fact that the primary
record does not exist and the reason the record does not exist;
Demonstrate the unavailability of any secondary evidence; and
Submit two or more af fidavits by persons who are not parties to the benefit request and who
have direct personal knowledge of the event and circumstances.[17]
A requestor who is not able to provide a written statement of unavailability from the relevant foreign
authority may instead submit evidence of repeated good faith attempts to obtain the required
document or statement.[18]
Primary Evidence that is Generally Available but is Unreliable
Officers may also encounter cases where primary evidence is generally available, but DOS reports
that such documents are unreliable. Civil records may be considered unreliable or require additional
scrutiny for various reasons, including inaccurate recording, date of issuance, inconsistent standards
for issuance, or widespread fraud.
If foreign documents submitted as primary evidence are unreliable according to DOS,[19] USCIS may
request secondary evidence[20] in support of the benefit request. In cases where the secondary
evidence is insuf ficient, or where interview criteria indicate, USCIS may refer the benefit requestor for
an in-person interview . In addition, petitioners or applicants should be encouraged to submit all
evidence at their disposal in response to any Request for Evidence (RFE). Whether evidence
establishes the eligibility requirements is evaluated by the totality and quality of the evidence
presented.
C. Copies vs. Originals
When adjudicating an immigration benefit, of ficers need to verify facts such as dates of marriage,
birth, death, and divorce, as well as criminal and employment history . The “best evidence rule” states8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 272/2618