application is denied because the applicant failed to appear for a scheduled interview without suf ficient
justification. 
A transfer cannot be granted once a final decision has been made on an adjustment application,
whether granted, denied, or withdrawn, even if USCIS reopens or reconsiders the final decision.
3. Eligibility for Substituted Category
The applicant must provide evidence of eligibility for the new immigrant category in support of the
request to transfer to a new eligibility basis. Evidence required can be found on the adjustment
application’ s filing instructions. The transfer request should be treated as if it were a new filing and the
applicant should provide the necessary documentation to establish eligibility for the new adjustment
category .
The burden of proof for establishing eligibility under the new immigrant category is on the
applicant. An of ficer does not need to make a full eligibility determination or pre-adjudicate the
adjustment application prior to making a decision on the request, even though establishing eligibility
may positively impact the decision as to whether to grant the request.
Inadmissibility and INA  245(c) Bars to Adjustment
The of ficer should consider that an applicant seeking to transfer the basis of a pending adjustment
application may become subject to inadmissibility grounds or adjustment bars under that new basis.
This could arise when the applicant is transferring from a basis that is exempt from certain
inadmissibility grounds or adjustment bars to a basis that is not exempt from the same inadmissibility
grounds or bars to adjustment. As a matter of discretion, the of ficer may deny a transfer request in
these circumstances.
Example: Transfer Subjecting Applicant to Inadmissibility Grounds or Adjustment Bars
Date Event
May 18, 201 1An applicant applies for adjustment of status as the spouse of a U.S.
citizen after recently getting married.
July 23, 201 1 An employer petitions for the applicant.
September 3, 201 1 The employer ’s employment-based petition is approved.
October 21, 201 1The applicant requests a transfer to adjust status based on the
employment-based petition instead of as the spouse of a U.S. citizen.
In this case, the applicant requested the transfer to avoid the conditional residence requirements.
Because the applicant is no longer seeking to adjust as the spouse of a U.S. citizen (immediate
relative), the applicant would no longer qualify for the special exemptions from adjustment
bars applicable to immediate relatives. As a result, the applicant may become subject to any8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1503/2618