Alternatively , if the of ficer finds that the qualifying relative would relocate to a part of the country that is
not subject to the travel warning (because of the danger in the part or region covered by the travel
warning or for any other reason), that indicates that the qualifying relative would generally not face
significantly increased danger upon relocation.
If the of ficer finds that the qualifying relative would remain in the United States while the applicant
returns to a country or region that is subject to a DOS warning against travel, the of ficer should
evaluate whether the separation may result in extreme hardship to the qualifying relative. In such
cases, the of ficer should consider the hardship to the qualifying relative resulting from the increased
danger to the applicant in the relevant country or region.
5. Substantial Displacement of Care of Applicant’ s Children
USCIS recognizes the importance of family unity and the ability of parents and other caregivers to
provide for the well-being of children.[17] Depending on the particular facts of a case, either the
continuation of one’ s existing caregiving duties under new and dif ficult circumstances or the need to
assume someone else’ s caregiving duties can be suf ficiently burdensome to rise to the level of
extreme hardship. The children do not need to be U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents (LPRs)
in such cases.[18]
In cases involving the separation of spouses in which the qualifying relative is the primary caretaker
and the applicant is the primary income earner , the income earner ’s refusal of admission often causes
economic loss to the caregiver . Although economic loss alone is generally a common consequence of
a denial of admission, depending on the particular circumstances the economic loss associated with
the denial of admission may create burdens on the caregiver that are severe enough to rise to the
level of extreme hardship. That can occur , for example, when the qualifying relative must take on the
additional burdens of primary income earner while remaining the primary caregiver . That dual
responsibility may significantly disrupt the qualifying relative’ s ability to meet his or her own basic
subsistence needs or those of the person(s) for whom the care is being provided. In such cases, the
dual burden would often support a finding of extreme hardship. In addition, the qualifying relative may
suffer significant emotional and psychological impacts from being the sole caregiver of the child(ren)
that exceed the common consequences of being left as a sole parent.
In cases involving the separation of spouses in which the qualifying relative is the primary income
earner and the applicant is the primary caretaker , the caretaker ’s refusal of admission can result in a
substantial shift of caregiving responsibility from the applicant to the qualifying relative. Such a shift
may significantly af fect the qualifying relative’ s ability to earn income for the family; disrupt family ,
social, and cultural ties; or hinder the child(ren)’ s psychological, cognitive, or emotional development.
The shift may also frustrate or complicate the qualifying relative’ s efforts to provide a healthy , stable,
and caring environment for the child(ren). Such additional emotional, psychological and/or economic8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2131/2618