USCIS promotes national security and public safety by conducting screening and vetting in all
immigration programs.  Screening and vetting standards include those needed for identity verification,
which is crucial to protect against fraud and help USCIS determine if a person is eligible to receive an
immigration benefit. Historically , USCIS collected biometrics (including photographs) for background
and security checks. Presently , biometrics are also stored and used to verify a person’ s identity in
subsequent encounters with DHS.
C. Legal Authorities
8 CFR 103.16  – Collection, use, and storage of biometric information 
8 CFR 103.2  – Submission and adjudication of benefit requests
INA 105 – Liaison with internal security of ficers
INA 335; 8 CFR 335.1 ; 8 CFR 335.2  – Investigation and examination of applicants for
naturalization
Footnotes
[^ 1] The term person includes any applicant, petitioner , beneficiary , sponsor , derivative, requestor , or
person filing or associated with a benefit request.
[^ 2] The term biometrics refers to “the measurable biological (anatomical and physiological) or
behavioral characteristics of a natural person, including the person’ s fingerprints, photograph, or
signature.”
Chapter 2 - Biometrics Collection
A. Biometric Services Appointments
After a person files an application, petition, or other benefit request, USCIS may schedule a biometric
services appointment at a local Application Support Center (ASC).[1] The appointment notice indicates
the date, time, and location of the appointment. The person submitting biometrics should bring the
appointment notice and valid, unexpired photo identification (for example, Permanent Resident Card
(Form I-551), passport, or driver ’s license), or other identity documentation[2] as authorized by USCIS
to the appointment.
USCIS considers a person to have abandoned an application, petition, or request if the person fails to
appear for the biometric services appointment unless, by the appointment time, USCIS receives a8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 252/2618