However , indications that the marriage had been in bad faith may be considered when weighing the
discretionary factors.
Although the approval of an extreme hardship waiver is discretionary , only the most significant
negative factors would justify denial of an extreme hardship waiver where the CPR has suf ficiently
established that extreme hardship would result if the CPR was removed from the United States. The
burden of establishing extreme hardship rests solely with the CPR.[16]
A CPR who filed Form I-751 under another filing basis may change to or add extreme hardship as a
basis for filing by notifying the USCIS of fice that issued the receipt notice or most recent
correspondence in writing. This request may also be made at the interview . Similarly , a CPR who
initially filed Form I-751 as an extreme hardship waiver may change to or add another waiver basis for
filing by notifying USCIS in writing or in person at the interview .
However , a CPR seeking to change from an extreme hardship waiver to a joint filing must file a new
Form I-751 jointly with the CPR’ s petitioning spouse or stepparent since the spouse or stepparent
never signed the prior Form I-751.
B. Good Faith Marriage (Divorce)
1. Marriages T erminated by Divorce or Annulment
Bona fide marriages may dissolve in less than 2 years. The Immigration Marriage Fraud Amendments
(IMFA) of 1986 were not meant to be used as a tool against bona fide yet brief marriages. Instead,
Congress enacted the amendments to prevent immigration fraud based on marriages entered into in
bad faith.[17]
Accordingly , the INA  provides for a waiver if the CPR can establish that the qualifying marriage was
entered into in good faith and that the CPR was not at fault in failing to meet the filing requirements
for Form I-751 .[18] CPRs whose marriages have been terminated by divorce or annulment may
request this waiver , but CPRs whose marriages were terminated by death of the petitioning spouse
should instead submit an individual filing request.[19]
Despite the termination of the marriage, the CPR is still responsible for submitting evidence that the
marriage was entered into in good faith and not for the purpose of evading immigration laws.
USCIS looks at the evidence relating to the actions of the parties following immigration to the United
States in evaluating the spouses’  intentions at the time of marriage.[20] Evidence may include:  
The degree to which the parties combined financial assets and liabilities of the parties;[21]
Length of time the parties cohabited after the marriage and after the CPR obtained conditional
resident status;[22]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1386/2618