classification from USCIS by filing a Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-
360). 
Therefore, in order for a special immigrant armed forces member adjustment applicant to be eligible to
receive an immigrant visa, he or she must be one of the following:
The applicant is the beneficiary of an approved Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special
Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) classifying him or her as special immigrant armed forces member;
The applicant has a pending Form I-360  (that is ultimately approved); or
The applicant is filing the adjustment application concurrently with the Form I-360  (and the Form
I-360  is ultimately approved).
The following provides information how a principal I-360 applicant qualifies for classification as a
special immigrant armed forces member: 
The applicant must have been lawfully enlisted in the U.S. military outside the United States
under a treaty or agreement that was in ef fect on October 1, 1991; 
 The applicant must have either served honorably or was enlisted to serve in the U.S.
armed forces after October 15, 1978, for a specific time period; 
The applicant must have served for an aggregate period of either (1) 12 years and received an
honorable discharge, or (2) 6 years of honorable active duty service in the U.S. armed forces
and have reenlisted for 6 more years of active duty to total at least 12 years of active duty at the
time that enlistment ends; and
 The applicant must have been recommended for special immigrant classification by the
executive department under which the immigrant served or is currently serving.
Once accorded special immigrant classification, these aliens could adjust to LPR status, provided
they meet the other eligibility requirements for adjustment. 
Treaties in Effect on October 1, 1991
Those eligible under treaties in ef fect on October 1, 1991, include nationals of:
Philippines;
 Federated States of Micronesia;
 Republic of Palau; and
 Republic of the Marshall Islands. 
Verifying the Underlying Basis to Adjust Status and Determining Ongoing Eligibility[13]
The special immigrant armed forces member petition should already be adjudicated and approved
when the of ficer adjudicates the adjustment application. USCIS does not re-adjudicate the special
immigrant armed forces member petition at the time of the adjudication of the adjustment application.
However , the of ficer should ensure that the applicant remains classified as a special immigrant armed8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1709/2618