After a petition has been approved and an immigrant visa is available, a beneficiary may apply for an
immigrant visa with U.S. Department of State (DOS) or apply with USCIS to adjust status to
permanent residence if in the United States.[1]
B. Denial
If the petitioner has not established eligibility , the of ficer denies the petition.
The of ficer should write the denial in clear and comprehensive language and cover all grounds for
denial.[2] The of ficer should refer in the denial to the controlling statute or regulations and to any
relevant precedent or adopted decisions. The decision must include information about appeal rights
and the opportunity to file a motion to reopen or reconsider . The denied petition should then be held
locally until the time period for an appeal or motion has passed.
The denial decision may be appealed to the Administrative Appeals Of fice (AAO) if falling within the
AAO’ s jurisdiction.[3] A petitioner may not appeal a denial decision that is based upon lack of
permanent labor certification. A petitioner may appeal a case that is denied because the beneficiary
does not qualify for the Schedule A designation or for the waiver of the job of fer in the national interest,
or because USCIS determined that a successor-in-interest does not exist.
C. Revocation
A petition’ s approval may be revoked, in the agency’ s discretion, “for good and suf ficient cause.”[4] A
petition may also be withdrawn upon a written request for withdrawal of the petition filed by the
petitioner (who in some cases may also be the beneficiary).[5]
DOS may also terminate the registration of a beneficiary with an approved petition if such beneficiary
fails to apply for an immigrant visa within 1 year of notification of availability of a visa number . The
same statutory provision provides for reinstatement of registration in certain cases.[6]
According to the AAO’ s adopted decision in Matter of V -S-G- Inc. , beneficiaries who are otherwise
eligible to and have properly requested to port under the American Competitiveness in the 21st
Century Act (AC21) are af fected parties.[7] As a result of this decision, USCIS provides a Notice of
Intent to Revoke (NOIR) or a Notice of Revocation (NOR) or both to a beneficiary who has an
approved petition and an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 )
that has been pending for 180 days or more, and has properly requested to port.
The porting request is proper when it has been favorably reviewed by USCIS before the issuance of a
NOIR or NOR. Before January 17, 2017, a beneficiary requested to port by submitting a request in
writing. Beginning January 17, 2017, a beneficiary must request to port by submitting Confirmation of
Bona Fide Job Of fer or Request for Job Portability Under INA  Section 204(j) ( Form I-485 Supplement
J).[8]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1143/2618