to the documentation contained in the refugee application or with the relative petition, as this
information was previously vetted at the time of the refugee status interview or relative
petition approval. 
C. Documentation Already Contained in the A-File
The refugee application, (generally referred to as the “refugee travel packet”), should already be
included in the applicant’ s A-file, including all of the forms, evidence, and of ficer notes that were part of
the original application for refugee status. The most important document for an of ficer to review is
either the refugee application or the relative petition, which provides proof of status and establishes
identity (with attached photo) as well as citizenship, since most refugees will not have a birth certificate
or a passport. 
Another important document in the refugee travel packet is the Medical Examination of Applicants for
United States V isas (Form DS-2054, formerly numbered OF-157). An of ficer does not need to be
aware of the overseas medical examination requirements, but should realize that the overseas
medical examination requirements are not the same as the requirements for medical examinations
performed in the United States. Refugees are generally not required to complete a new medical exam
in the United States if a medical exam was performed overseas and there were no Class A conditions. 
D. Unavailable or Missing Documentation
When a refugee flees the country of persecution, he or she may not be able to obtain any
documentation issued by a civil authority as proof of identity or of a familial relationship. At the time of
the refugee status interview , an of ficer reviews many documents and af fidavits and solicits testimony
when seeking to establish a refugee’ s personal and family identity . Any available documents submitted
at the time of the refugee status interview should be contained within the A-file. 
An of ficer may rely on the documents contained in the original refugee travel packet to verify identity at
the time of adjustment. While it is not necessary to request the applicant’ s birth certificate or passport
as proof of identity , an of ficer should review any documentation establishing identity submitted with the
adjustment application. 
Additionally , an of ficer should compare photos submitted with the application to the photos in the
refugee packet. If an of ficer is unable to establish an applicant’ s identity due to discrepancies between
the documentation the applicant submitted and information contained in the original refugee packet,
then the of ficer should forward the file to the field of fice with jurisdiction over the case for interview and
resolution.
Footnote8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1802/2618