An of ficer can generally verify physical presence for a derivative asylee by reviewing the date and
place of last arrival into the United States and address history on the Form I-485  and admission
information contained in government systems.
The of ficer should also review the date of admission of an asylee found on an Arrival/Departure
Record (Form I-94), travel documents, and in government systems to determine if the asylee meets
the physical presence requirement.
If evidence shows that the asylee has not been physically present for a cumulative total period of at
least 1 year in the United States, the of ficer may request additional information to determine physical
presence. This may include but is not limited to pay stubs or employment records, school or medical
records, rental and utility bill receipts, or any other documentation that supports proof of physical
presence.
Two (2) passport-style photos taken no earlier than 30 days prior to filing 
Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 )
A principal asylee is required to submit a complete medical examination and vaccination record. The
examination must be completed by a USCIS designated civil surgeon, meet the standards of the
medical examination, and include all required vaccinations as of the date of the examination. A
complete medical examination is not required of all derivative asylees at time of adjustment. 
Derivative asylees that had a medical examination conducted overseas will not be required to undergo
a new medical examination at the time of applying for adjustment of status if: 
The results of the overseas medical examination are contained in the A-file and no Class A
condition was reported;
The asylee has applied for adjustment of status within 1 year of filing eligibility (for example,
within 2 years of the date of admission as an asylee derivative); and
There is no evidence in the A-file or testimony given at an interview to suggest that
the asylee has acquired a Class A condition subsequent to his or her entry into the United
States. 
Even if a complete new medical examination is not required, the applicant must still establish
compliance with the vaccination requirements and submit the vaccination record portion of the medical
examination record with the adjustment application. Unlike refugees, derivative asylees may not have
their vaccination records completed by a health department with a blanket waiver as a civil surgeon.
Blanket waivers for civil surgeons only extend to refugee vaccination certifications.[1]
Certified Copies of Arrest/Court Records (if applicable)8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1821/2618