The applicant must submit proof of U.S. citizenship. Examples of such proof include a birth certificate,
an unexpired U.S. passport, a certificate of naturalization, or a certificate of citizenship. If such primary
evidence is unavailable, USCIS may consider secondary evidence.[10]
2. Proof of the Spouse’ s Immigration and Citizenship Status (If Applicable)
If the applicant is married, the applicant must submit evidence that the applicant's spouse is a U.S.
citizen, a national (but not citizen) of the United States, or is otherwise in a lawful immigration status,
provided the spouse resides in the United States. Examples of evidence of U.S. citizenship or U.S.
national status include a birth certificate, an unexpired U.S. passport, a certificate of naturalization, or
a certificate of citizenship. Examples of evidence of lawful immigration status may consist of a
Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551), a foreign passport with an I-551 stamp, a foreign passport
with an unexpired visa and a valid admission stamp, a valid Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94), or
other evidence of lawful status in the United States.
3. Proof of Marriage (If Applicable)
If married, the P AP must submit a copy of their marriage certificate.
If previously married, the P AP must include evidence of the termination of any prior marriages.
Examples of such proof include, but are not limited to, a divorce decree, annulment decree, other legal
termination of the marriage, or death certificate of previous spouse.
4. Proof of Compliance with Pre-Adoption Requirements (If Applicable)
If the suitability application or combination filing indicates that the child will be coming to the United
States for adoption, the P AP must establish that any pre-adoption requirements of the state of the
child’ s intended residence have been or will be met. USCIS considers an orphan to be coming to the
United States for adoption if:
Neither parent personally saw and observed the child before or during the adoption;
The P AP will not complete the adoption outside the United States (and will therefore need to
complete the adoption in the United States); or
In the case of a married couple, only one of the adoptive parents adopts the child outside of the
United States (therefore, the spouse will need to adopt the child in the United States).
5. Biometrics
The P APs and any adult members of the household[11] must submit biometrics.[12]
For those residing in the United States, USCIS schedules biometrics collection at an Application
Support Center (ASC). Persons residing outside of the United States must submit biometrics at a
USCIS international field of fice, U.S. embassy , consulate, or military installation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 895/2618