Most adjustment of status approvals are granted based on family or employment relationships. Unlike
immigrant visa petition processing where the focus is on the relationship between the petitioner and
beneficiary , the focus on an adjustment application is on the applicant’ s eligibility and admissibility .
The following overview provides a brief history of permanent immigration and adjustment of status,
along with a summary of major developments in U.S. immigration law over the years. 
1. Early Immigration Laws
Prior to the late 19th century , immigration was essentially unregulated. At that time, Congress imposed
the first qualitative restrictions, which barred certain undesirable immigrants such as criminals and
those with infectious diseases from entering the country .
During the 1920s, Congress established annual quotas that imposed the first numerical restrictions on
immigration. This was known as the National Origins Quota System. The system limited immigration
from each country to a designated percentage of foreign-born persons of that nationality who resided
in the United States according to the 1910 census. These quotas did not apply to spouses and
children (unmarried and under 21 years old) of U.S. citizens.[3]
These immigration laws required all intending immigrants to obtain an immigrant visa at a U.S.
embassy or consulate abroad and then travel to the United States and seek admission as LPRs.[4] As
such, these laws provided no legal procedure by which an alien already physically present in the
United States could become a permanent resident without first leaving the country to obtain the
required immigrant visa.
By 1935, the administrative process of pre-examination was developed so that an alien already
temporarily in the United States could obtain permanent resident status more quickly and easily .[5] In
general, the pre-examination process consisted of an of ficial determination in the United States of the
alien’ s immigrant visa eligibility , followed by a trip to Canada or another country for an arranged
immigrant visa appointment at a U.S. consulate, and a prompt return and admission to the United
States as a permanent resident. The government processed over 45,000 pre-examination cases from
1935 to 1950.[6]
Near the onset of W orld W ar II, the U.S. government became increasingly concerned about the
possibility of hostile foreign enemies living in the United States. In response, Congress enacted the
Alien Registration Act of 1940, which required foreign-born persons 14 years of age and older to report
to a U.S. post of fice, and later to an immigration of fice, to be fingerprinted and register their presence
in the United States.[7] Those found to have no legal basis to remain in the United States were
required to leave or were removed. Those with a valid claim to permanent residency received an Alien
Registration Card. 
2. Immigration and Nationality Act of 19528/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1431/2618