A. Purpose
USCIS balances public health interests against family unity and the needs of the applicant in
adjudicating waivers of medical inadmissibility . For this reason, one of the terms and conditions
imposed on all applicants with the grant of a waiver is to receive treatment so that
the medical condition no longer poses a public health risk. 
 B. Background
A medical examination is generally required for all immigrant visa and some nonimmigrant visa
applicants, as well as for refugees, and adjustment of status applicants. The purpose of the medical
examination is to determine if an applicant has a medical condition(s) that renders him or her
inadmissible to the United States.
Generally , applicants establish their admissibility on medical grounds by submitting a Report of
Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ), or Medical Examination for
Immigrant or Refugee Applicant (1991 TB Technical Instructions) (Form DS-2053) or Medical
Examination for Immigrant or Refugee Applicant (2007 TB Technical Instructions) (Form DS-2054),
and related worksheets.[1]
Civil surgeons or panel physicians complete these documents after the medical examination of the
applicant,[2] certifying the presence or absence of physical or mental conditions that may render
the applicant inadmissible. Two types of certifications may indicate to USCIS that the applicant may be
inadmissible: a “Class A” and a “Class B” condition. 
A Class A condition is conclusive evidence that an applicant is inadmissible on health-related
grounds. A Class B condition, unlike a Class A condition, does not make an applicant inadmissible on
health-related grounds but may lead the of ficer to conclude that the applicant is inadmissible on other
grounds (such as public charge).[3]
Before 1957, no waiver was available to applicants inadmissible on health-related grounds. The
Immigration Act of 1957 created the first waiver provision for those af flicted with tuberculosis who had
close relatives in the United States.[4] In addition, the 1965 amendments to the INA  authorized the
waiver of inadmissibility and admission of certain applicants in this category who had close relatives in
the United States.[5]
The Immigration Act of 1990[6] relaxed the requirements for a familial relationship before a medical
waiver could be granted. In addition, over time, other provisions were added to the 1952 Immigration
Act that allowed for other waivers of medical grounds depending on the immigration benefit sought.
C. Scope8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2145/2618