The agent explains the terms and conditions of the employment and provides any required
documentation.[7]
An agent may be the actual employer of the beneficiary . In order to be eligible to file a petition on
behalf of the beneficiary as his or her agent and on behalf of other (multiple) employers of the
beneficiary , the petitioner must meet the conditions described above and establish that it is "in
business as an agent" (as described below).
The regulations do not specify the evidence for establishing that the petitioner of multiple employers is
"in business as an agent." Of ficers consider evidence that shows that it is more likely than not that the
petitioner is in business as an agent for the series of events, services, or engagements that are the
subject of the petition. The focus is on whether the petitioner can establish that it is authorized to act
as an agent for the other employers for purposes of filing the petition. This means that the petitioner
does not have to demonstrate that it normally serves as an agent outside the context of the petition.
The petitioner seeking to serve as an agent for the beneficiary or for other employers must establish
that it is duly authorized to act as their agent. An of ficer may determine that this requirement has been
satisfied if, for example, the petitioner presents a document signed by the beneficiary's other
employer(s) that states that the petitioner is authorized to act in that employer's place as an agent for
the limited purpose of filing the petition with USCIS.[8]
Other examples of probative evidence that may demonstrate that the petitioner "is in business as an
agent" may include:
A statement confirming the relevant information (itinerary , names and addresses of the series of
employers) signed by the petitioner and the series of employers;
Other types of agency representation contracts;
Fee arrangements; or
Statements from the other employers regarding the nature of the petitioner's representation of
the employers and beneficiary .
While evidence of compensation could help establish that the petitioner is in business as an agent,
compensation is not a requirement to establish an agency . Again, the of ficer must evaluate each case
based on the facts presented.
Assuming that the petition is approvable and the petitioner has established that it is authorized to act
as an agent in order to file the petition on behalf of the other employers, the validity period should last
for the duration of the qualifying events, not to exceed the maximum allowable validity period for the
classification being sought.[9] If the petition is approvable but the petitioner has not established that it
is authorized by the other employers to file the petition on behalf of the other employers (including
after responding to a Request for Evidence), the validity period should be limited to the qualifying8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 531/2618