applicable bars, unless an INA 245(k)  exemption applies. An of ficer may exercise discretion to deny
the transfer request in such cases.
4. Visa Immediately Available
When an applicant requests a transfer of the adjustment application from one basis to another , the
priority date must be current for the category the applicant wishes to use. In order to transfer an
adjustment application to a new basis involving a preference classification, the applicant must be the
beneficiary of a pending or approved visa petition which has a visa available. 
The date on which the transfer request is filed controls for purposes of determining whether an
immigrant visa number is available, not the date on which the initial petition supporting the adjustment
application was filed. For example, in order for an applicant who concurrently files an adjustment
application with a preference petition filed by Employer A on March 3, 2013 to transfer the pending
adjustment application to another preference petition on August 25, 2014, an immigrant visa number
must be immediately available on August 25, 2014, under the new basis.
Priority Date
With limited exceptions, a priority date is not transferable from one petition to another .[6]
In general, the priority date of the replacement petition attaches to the pending adjustment application.
This is done regardless of whether the priority date is earlier or later than the priority date of the initial
petition supporting the adjustment application, except where applicable regulations permit retention of
priority dates (allowing for use of the earliest priority date) in certain employment-based 1st, 2nd, and
3rd preference cases.[7]
Choosing Between Numerically Limited Category and Non-Numerically Limited Category
In general, an of ficer should adjust the applicant under the non-numerically limited category in order to
leave a visa preference number available for other immigrants in cases where an applicant is eligible
to adjust status under both a numerically limited category and a non-numerically limited category .
5. Exercise of Discretion
Whether to grant or deny a transfer request is a matter of discretion. Except for simple transfers
between the first three employment-based categories, the adjustment applicant should not assume
that transfer requests will be automatically granted. Other than the general eligibility requirements
listed above, an of ficer may consider the ef fects of additional processing time required to gather
evidence to support the applicant’ s new claim. The of ficer may look more favorably on those requests
that include submission of all required initial evidence that supports the new basis for adjustment. 
In addition, the of ficer may consider the following:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1504/2618