Although the burden of proof to establish eligibility for an immigration benefit is on the benefit
requestor ,[43] an of ficer may assess, before issuing an RFE or a NOID, whether the information or
evidence needed is available in USCIS records or systems. Of ficers have the discretion[44] to validate
assertions or corroborate evidence and information by reviewing USCIS (or other governmental) files,
systems, and databases, or by obtaining publicly available information that is readily accessible.[45] 
For example, an of ficer may , in the exercise of discretion, verify information relating to a petitioner ’s
corporate structure by consulting a publicly available government website or corroborate evidence
relating to a person’ s history of nonimmigrant stays in the United States by searching a U.S.
government database.
3. Requests for Evidence
If the benefit requestor either has not submitted all of the required initial evidence[46] for the benefit
request, or the evidence in the record does not establish eligibility for the benefit sought, the of ficer
should issue an RFE or NOID requesting such evidence unless the of ficer determines that there is no
legal basis for the benefit request and no possibility that additional information or explanation will
establish a legal basis for approval.[47]
Content of RFEs
RFEs should:
Identify the eligibility requirement(s) that has not been established and why the evidence
submitted is insuf ficient;
Identify any missing evidence specifically required by the applicable statute, regulation, or form
instructions;
Identify examples of other evidence that may be submitted to establish eligibility; and
Request that evidence.
An of ficer should not request evidence that is outside the scope of the adjudication or otherwise
irrelevant to an identified deficiency .
The RFE should ask for all the evidence the of ficer anticipates needing to determine eligibility and
should clearly state the deadline for response.
Avoiding Multiple RFEs
In certain instances, the evidence provided in response to an RFE may raise eligibility questions that
the of ficer did not identify during initial case review or open new lines of inquiry . In such a case, the
officer may issue a follow-up RFE or NOID. However , officers should include in a single RFE all the
evidence they anticipate needing to determine eligibility . The of ficer’s careful consideration of all the
apparent deficiencies in the evidence minimizes the need for multiple RFEs.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 278/2618