required for purposes of acquiring citizenship where a child is born in wedlock outside the United
States to two U.S. citizen parents.[35]
For example, a person who spent time travelling in the United States for a year living in dif ferent hotel
rooms in dif ferent cities or towns every week and who did not own or rent any property or have
another principal dwelling place in the United States, would likely be able to establish 1 year of
physical presence. However , without additional evidence of a principal actual dwelling place in the
United States, that person could not establish residence in the United States. The table below
provides a few examples on how travel would af fect the physical presence and the residence
requirements. However , the examples are not dispositive and individual cases will be determined
based on the individual merits and evidence presented.
Examples Illustrating Physical Presence and Residence in the United States
ScenariosPhysical
PresenceResidence
U.S. citizen parent owns a home and works in a foreign
country . Parent travels to the United States and:
Stays 2 weeks with a cousin in New York,
Stays 2 weeks in New York with his or her parents,
and
Travels to Florida on vacation for 2 weeks.6 weeksNo U.S. residence
(Residence is
outside the United
States)
Parent is a U.S. citizen born in a foreign country , who
never lived in or visited the United States. His child moved
to the United States as an adult and claimed U.S.
citizenship.No physical
presence[36]No U.S. residence
As a child, U.S. citizen parent came to the United States
for 3 consecutive summers to attend a 2-month long camp.
The parent lived and went to school in a foreign country for
the rest of the year .6 monthsNo U.S. residence
(Residence is
outside the United
States)
U.S. citizen parent worked in the United States for 9
months in a year for 8 years out of a 9-year period. (Parent
returned to Mexico to spend the remaining 3 months of
each year with family , who never visited the United States.)9 months in a
year for 8 yearsU.S. residence
established[37]
1. Special Considerations8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2463/2618