If married, the P AP must submit proof of marriage. This includes evidence of the termination of any
prior marriages.
4. Proof of Compliance with Pre-Adoption Requirements (If Applicable)
If the suitability application indicates that the child will be coming to the United States for adoption, the
applicant must establish that any pre-adoption requirements of the state of the child’ s intended
residence have been or will be met. USCIS considers a Convention adoptee to be coming to the
United States for adoption if:
The P AP will not complete the adoption outside the United States (and will therefore need to
complete the adoption in the United States); or
In the case of a married couple, only one of the adoptive parents adopts the child outside the
United States (therefore, the spouse will need to adopt the child in the United States).
5. Biometrics
The P APs and any adult members of the household[10] must submit biometrics.
For those residing in the United States, USCIS schedules biometrics collection at an Application
Support Center (ASC). Persons residing outside of the United States must submit biometrics at a
USCIS international field of fice, U.S. embassy , consulate, or military installation.
USCIS considers biometric based background check results to be valid for a period of 15 months. The
PAP or additional adult member of the household (AMH) may need to update their biometrics during
the intercountry adoption process.[11]
Unclassifiable Biometrics
USCIS submits biometrics to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for criminal history background
checks. On occasion, the FBI is unable to provide USCIS with a criminal history based on biometrics
submitted. When this happens, the FBI refers to the biometrics as “unclassifiable.” If USCIS receives
two consecutive sets of unclassifiable biometrics,[12] USCIS issues a Request for Evidence (RFE) to
the P AP or adult household member for police clearances[13] for all residences (domestic or foreign)
for the last 5 years. If a U.S. state record is available, it is required in place of a clearance from a local
police department:
When an arrest record is needed to provide information about a conviction;
To document that there were no arrests; or
To document that an arrest did not lead to court action.
Police clearances are not available from certain countries.[14] If a police clearance is generally
available, but a country is unable to provide one, the P AP or AMH must provide a letter from the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 900/2618