When a Petitioner May Use Comparable Evidence
Petitioners should submit evidence outlined in the evidentiary criteria if the criteria readily apply to the
beneficiary’ s occupation.[67] However , if the petitioner establishes that a particular criterion is not
readily applicable to the beneficiary’ s occupation, the petitioner may then use the comparable
evidence provision to submit additional evidence that is not specifically described in that criterion but is
comparable to that criterion.
A petitioner is not required to show that all or a majority of the criteria do not readily apply to the
beneficiary’ s occupation before USCIS will accept comparable evidence. Instead, for comparable
evidence to be considered, the petitioner must explain why a particular evidentiary criterion listed in
the regulations is not readily applicable to the beneficiary’ s occupation as well as why the submitted
evidence is “comparable” to that criterion. A general unsupported assertion that the listed criterion
does not readily apply to the beneficiary’ s occupation is not probative. However , a statement alone
can be suf ficient if it is detailed, specific, and credible.
Although of ficers do not consider comparable evidence if the petitioner submits evidence in lieu of a
particular criterion that is readily applicable to the beneficiary’ s occupation simply because the
beneficiary cannot satisfy that criterion, a criterion need not be entirely inapplicable to the beneficiary’ s
occupation. Rather , comparable evidence is allowed if the petitioner shows that a criterion is not easily
applicable to the beneficiary’ s job or profession.[68]
Establishing Eligibility with Comparable Evidence
A petitioner relying on evidence that is comparable to one or more of the criteria listed at 8 CFR
214.2(o)(3)(iv)(B)  must still meet at least three separate evidentiary criteria to satisfy the evidence
requirements, even if one or more of those criteria are met through evidence that is not specifically
described in the regulation but is comparable.[69] While a petitioner relying on comparable evidence is
not limited to the kinds of evidence listed in the criteria, the use of comparable evidence does not
change the standard for the classification. It remains the petitioner ’s burden to establish that the
beneficiary has extraordinary ability in the beneficiary's field of endeavor .
4. Evaluating the T otality of the Evidence
When the evidentiary requirements specified above are satisfied, an of ficer proceeds to evaluate the
totality of all the evidence in the record to determine whether the beneficiary has extraordinary ability
with sustained national or international acclaim, as described in the O statute and regulations.[70]
At this step, of ficers may consider any potentially relevant evidence, even if such evidence does not fit
one of the above regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence.
E. O-1B Beneficiaries in Motion Picture or T elevision8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 553/2618