Date Event
marriage, and receipt notice of the petition filed October 1, 2010. The
applicant requests a transfer .
In this case, the applicant failed to maintain continuity of eligibility because the first petition approval
was automatically revoked at the moment the first marriage was dissolved. Accordingly , the
adjustment application cannot be transferred and the applicant must file a new adjustment application
for the new petition.
Adjustment Application Supported by Petition or Basis At All Times
The replacement petition must be properly filed and designated as the new basis for the pending
adjustment application before the initial petition supporting the adjustment application is withdrawn,
denied, or revoked. Additionally , if the new basis requires that the underlying petition first be approved
prior to filing an adjustment application, a transfer request will be denied unless the replacement
petition was approved prior to the request.[2]
If the petition upon which the pending adjustment application was initially based has been revoked[3]
before the applicant makes a proper request for a transfer , then the applicant cannot meet the
continuing eligibility requirement. In some cases, revocation of a petition is automatic and takes ef fect
as soon as a triggering event occurs[4]
In other cases, USCIS must follow a formal revocation process before the revocation takes ef fect.
[5] Continuing eligibility ends upon revocation. If the new basis of eligibility is not sought (in other
words, the transfer request has not been received and approved by USCIS) before the revocation
takes ef fect, the adjustment application cannot be transferred.
Fraud
If the original adjustment application was based on a petition determined to have been filed
fraudulently or with willful misrepresentation, the principal adjustment applicant or the beneficiary of
that petition is considered to have never been eligible for adjustment of status and therefore cannot
meet the continuing eligibility requirement. 
Likewise, anyone whose adjustment application is dependent upon that principal adjustment
applicant’ s eligibility is also ineligible. If a principal’ s adjustment application is denied based on a
determination of fraud, any accompanying derivative’ s application must also be denied.
2. Continuing Pendency of the Adjustment Application
An adjustment application cannot be transferred from one basis to another if there are any breaks in
the continuity of the application, including if the applicant chooses to withdraw the application or the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1502/2618