evidence of exceptional ability beyond the mere existence of a contract with a major league team or
an approved permanent labor certification.
An approved permanent labor certification submitted on behalf of the beneficiary does not bind USCIS
to a determination that the person is of exceptional ability . Notwithstanding the grant of a permanent
labor certification, the beneficiary may , for any number of reasons, be unable to fulfill the underlying
purpose of the petition.
Many athletes, for example, enjoy substantial signing bonuses, but may not, thereafter , prove to be of
“major league,” let alone exceptional caliber . Similarly , the fact that a beneficiary played for a portion of
a season for a major league team does not automatically establish that the beneficiary will continue to
play at an exceptional ability level. It would be inappropriate to approve an immigrant visa petition on
behalf of a major league player on the basis of exceptional ability if the beneficiary is unlikely to
continue to perform the duties specified in the underlying petition for a reasonable period following
approval of lawful permanent resident status.
Additionally , the beneficiary could be cut from the major league roster , may announce his permanent
retirement as a player in the sport, or suf fer from a career-ending injury prior to adjudication of the
petition, thereby removing the job of fer that formed the basis of the petition, which would result in a
denial of the petition.
D. National Interest W aiver of Job Offer
Since 1990, the INA  has provided that a person of exceptional ability[37] may obtain a waiver of the job
offer requirement if USCIS deems such waiver to be in the “national interest.”[38] A subsequent
technical amendment to the INA[39] extended the job of fer waiver to certain professionals.[40] This
waiver provision applies only to the second preference (EB-2) classification for members of the
professions holding advanced degrees and persons of exceptional ability . This waiver of the job of fer
is known as the national interest waiver .
A petition filed with a request for a national interest waiver on behalf of a person does not need to be
supported by a job of fer; therefore, the person may file as a self-petitioner . A waiver of a job of fer also
includes a waiver of the permanent labor certification requirement.[41] In support of the petition,
however , the petitioner must submit the employee-specific portions of a permanent labor certification
(without DOL  approval).[42] The petitioner may submit either the Form ET A 750B or Form ET A 9089.
1. Eligibility for Second Preference Classification
To establish eligibility for a national interest waiver , a petitioner must first demonstrate the person’ s
qualification for the underlying EB-2 visa classification as either a member of the professions holding
an advanced degree or an individual of exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or business.[43] If the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1200/2618