From time to time, aliens may complete an adjustment application by filling out their name in some
variation of that which was listed on the Form I-589  or Form I-730 . Although aliens may be permitted
on other local or federal government-issued documents to change their name or use a slightly dif ferent
spelling, aliens are not permitted to change the spelling of their names from that listed on their asylum
application or relative petition or to use another version of their name at time of adjustment of status,
unless the alien provides documentation of a legal name change. This is prohibited in order to
preserve the continuity and integrity of immigration records on the alien.
The asylum application or relative petition might contain an error in the spelling or the order of an
alien’ s name. If an of ficer, based on a review of underlying documents in the A-file, recognizes that the
original application or petition clearly had an error and the alien is requesting the corrected name on
the adjustment of status application, the of ficer may correct the error by amending the name on the
application. If the alien is granted permanent resident status, the name must also be corrected in the
appropriate electronic immigration systems.
F. Decision
1. Approvals
If the application is properly filed, the alien meets the eligibility requirements, satisfies admissibility or
waiver requirements, and warrants a favorable exercise of discretion, then the of ficer may approve the
adjustment application. 
Effective Date of Residence
The date of adjustment for aliens with an approved asylum-based adjustment applications is 1 year
before the date of being approved for permanent residence.
For example, an alien is granted asylum status on January 1, 2007. The alien files for adjustment of
status on March 15, 2009, and the application is approved on July 1, 2009. The date of adjustment of
status is rolled back 1 year to July 1, 2008. This is the date that appears on the alien’ s Permanent
Resident Card and in USCIS systems. Additionally , the 1-year roll back is counted toward physical
presence for naturalization purposes.
Code of Admission
An alien who has been granted asylum status as a principal asylee is adjusted using the code “AS-6.”
The AS-6 code is reserved for the principal asylee to ensure there is no confusion regarding the
eligibility to file a relative petition. The AS-6 code also applies to aliens who were granted asylum
through the nunc pro tunc process. An alien who adjusts status as a spouse of an asylee (AS-2
classification) is given the code “AS-7.” An alien who adjusts status as a child of a
principal asylee (AS-3 classification) is given the code “AS-8.” 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1827/2618