When there are derivative children beneficiaries, if the self-petitioner or any one derivative beneficiary
meets the residence requirement, then, as a matter of discretion, USCIS may approve the self-petition
or application for adjustment of status. The self-petitioner and all beneficiaries may be eligible to
immigrate to the same extent that would have been permitted if the LPR relative had not died. It is not
necessary for the self-petitioner and each derivative child to meet the residence requirements.
3. Self-Petitioner ’s Death
If a self-petitioning spouse or self-petitioning child dies while the self-petition is pending or after it is
approved, USCIS may approve the self-petition or continue adjudication for an adjustment of status
application based on an approved self-petition for any derivative children of the self-petitioner as a
matter of discretion under INA 204(l) . Derivative beneficiaries do not have to be included on the self-
petition to be considered for relief under INA 204(l)  as long as they are eligible as derivative
beneficiaries.
E. Loss or Renunciation of U.S. Citizenship or Loss of Lawful Permanent Resident
Status
A self-petitioner must demonstrate a qualifying relationship to a U.S. citizen or LPR at the time of filing
to be eligible for a self-petition.[39] Therefore, historically , if abusive U.S. citizen or LPR relatives had
lost or renounced their U.S. citizenship or LPR status, self-petitioners were no longer eligible for the
self-petition.
Congress recognized, however , that an abuser ’s loss of U.S. citizenship or LPR status may have been
related to an incident of domestic violence, and that the loss would impact a self-petitioner ’s eligibility
for VAWA benefits. So when Congress passed the Battered Immigrant W omen Protection Act (BIWP A)
in 2000, it amended the immigration laws to preserve self-petitioning eligibility in certain cases where
abusers lost their U.S. citizenship or LPR status for a reason related to an incident of domestic
violence, as long as the self-petition is filed within 2 years of the loss or renunciation.[40]
BIWP A also provided that if abusive U.S. citizens or LPRs lost their status after the self-petition was
filed, then self-petitioners would retain their eligibility despite the loss of status without having to show
a connection between the loss of U.S. citizenship or LPR status and an incident of domestic violence.
[41]
Self-petitioners must notify USCIS if their qualifying relative lost or renounced U.S. citizenship or LPR
status. Of ficers may check USCIS electronic systems to confirm the loss or renunciation of citizenship
or LPR status.
1. Loss or Renunciation of U.S. Citizenship or Loss of Lawful Permanent Resident Status Prior
to Filing8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 793/2618