Chapter 4 - Documentation and Evidence
The of ficer should review the following documentation or evidence to determine the refugee’ s eligibility
for adjustment:
A. Required Documentation and Evidence
Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 )
Each applicant must file a separate application regardless of whether he or she is a principal or a
derivative refugee. There is no fee required for refugees to file this form.
The of ficer must check the Form I-485  for additional aliases requiring a systems query .
Proof of refugee status 
An of ficer must review the contents of the A-file for proof of refugee status. The A-file should contain
an approved Registration for Classification as Refugee (Form I-590) with proper endorsement, or an
approved Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ). Although applicants may submit an
Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94), or a notice showing an approved relative petition with their
application, these documents must always be cross-checked with the evidence in the A-file to confirm
the applicant’ s refugee status.
Evidence of 1-year physical presence in the United States 
An of ficer can generally verify physical presence by reviewing the date of last arrival, place of last
entry into the United States, and address history on the Form I-485 , and by the admission information
within USCIS’  systems.
In addition, the of ficer should review the date of admission on either a Form I-94 or Form I-590, travel
documents, and government systems to determine if the refugee meets the physical presence
requirement. If the evidence shows that the applicant has not been physically present for a cumulative
total period of at least 1 year in the United States, the of ficer may request additional information to
determine physical presence. This may include, but is not limited to, pay stubs or employment records,
school or medical records, rental and utility bill receipts, or any other documentation that supports
proof of physical presence.
Two (2) passport-style photos, taken no earlier than 30 days prior to filing
Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 )
Typically a complete medical examination record is not needed by refugees. A refugee who already
received a medical examination prior to admission does not need to repeat the entire medical
examination unless the original examination revealed a Class A medical condition. However , the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1800/2618