Nunc Pro T unc Custody Orders
Sometimes, evidence supporting a claim of citizenship may include a nunc pro tunc[30] correction of a
judicial custody order that retroactively modifies a legal custody order . For purposes of derivative
citizenship, USCIS does not recognize nunc pro tunc custody orders if entered after the child’ s 18th
birthday that change the legal custody order from the time it was entered.[31]
Other Circumstances
There may be other factual circumstances under which USCIS may find the U.S. citizen parent to
have legal custody for purposes of INA 320. These circumstances are determined on a case-by-case
basis.[32]
2. Physical Custody
INA 320 also requires the child to reside in the physical custody of the U.S. citizen parent.[33] This
requirement is “to ensure that the child’ s ‘real interests’  are in the United States through a genuine
connection between the U.S. citizen parent and that parent’ s child.”[34] In the context of derivative
citizenship, the term “physical custody” means actual residence with the parent.[35] The term
“residence” means a person’ s principal, actual dwelling place in fact, without regard to intent.[36] For
purposes of INA  320, the parent the child resides with, or physically lives with, has physical custody of
the child.
Evidence Establishing Physical Custody Requirement Under INA  320
As mentioned above, the child automatically acquires U.S. citizenship when the child meets all
requirements before reaching the age of 18. This means that the evidence to establish that the child
was residing in the physical custody of the U.S. citizen parent must be from the time when the child
was under 18 years of age.
Evidence that may establish the child’ s residence, and therefore physical custody , with the U.S. citizen
parent can include any of the following:
The U.S. citizen parent’ s address on the application and in the record matches the address of
the child (while the child was under 18 years of age); 
The child’ s school transcripts, records, or attendance reports showing the child’ s residential
address to be the same as the U.S. citizen parent;
The child’ s medical, hospital, or vaccination records showing the child’ s residential address to be
the same as the U.S. citizen parent;
The U.S. citizen parent’ s federal income tax transcripts showing that the child was listed as a
dependent household member for tax purposes;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2490/2618