B. Filing 
Iraqi and Afghan nationals who worked directly with the U.S. armed forces or under Chief of Mission
(COM) authority at the U.S. Embassy Baghdad or U.S. Embassy Kabul as translators or interpreters
may file a Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant ( Form I-360 ) on their own behalf.
The petitioner must file Form I-360 according to the form instructions.[3]
C. Eligibility
To obtain approval of a petition for special immigrant status as an Iraqi or Afghan translator or
interpreter under the NDAA  2006, the petitioner must establish that he or she:
Is a national of Iraq or Afghanistan;
Worked directly as a translator or interpreter with the U.S. armed forces, or under COM authority ,
for a period of at least 12 months;
Has obtained a favorable written recommendation from the COM or a general or flag of ficer in
the chain of command of the U.S. armed forces unit supported by the translator or interpreter;
Has cleared a background check and appropriate screening as determined by the COM or a
general or flag of ficer in the chain of command of the U.S. armed forces unit supported by the
translator or interpreter; and
Is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant visa and is otherwise admissible to the United
States for permanent residence.[4]
D. Automatic Conversion for Approved T ranslators and Interpreters
A petitioner with an approved petition for special immigrant status as an Afghan or Iraqi translator or
interpreter under Section 1059 of NDAA  2006, for whom a visa under such section is not immediately
available, is eligible for conversion of the approved petition to that of an Iraqi or Afghan employed by
or on behalf of the U.S. government under Section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2008.[5] USCIS may complete such conversions until the numerical limitation specified
under Section 1244 is reached.[6]
Despite the fact that approvals are counted against available Section 1244 visa numbers,[7] eligibility
is still determined under Section 1059 rather than under the dif ferent eligibility requirements of Section
1244.[8]
E. Documentation and Evidence
The petitioner must submit the following evidence along with a completed Form I-360 :
A copy of the petitioner ’s passport or nationality or birth certificate showing that the petitioner is a
national of Iraq or Afghanistan, along with a certified English translation, if the document is in a8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1356/2618