Threats to personal safety – A petitioner or alien beneficiary is facing an imminent threat to
personal safety . For example, a petitioner and alien beneficiary may have been forced to flee
their country of residence due to civil strife or natural disaster and are in precarious
circumstances in a dif ferent country outside of the United States.
Close to aging out – An alien beneficiary is within a few months of aging out of eligibility .
Petitioner has recently naturalized – A petitioner and alien beneficiary has traveled for the
immigrant visa interview , but the petitioner has naturalized and the beneficiary requires a new
petition based on the petitioner ’s citizenship.
Adoption of a child – A U.S. citizen petitioner has adopted a child abroad and has an imminent
need to depart the country . This type of case should only be considered if the adoptive
parent petitioner(s) has a final adoption decree on behalf of the child and has had legal custody
of and jointly resided with the child for at least 2 years.[11]
Short notice of position relocation – A U.S. citizen petitioner , living and working abroad, has
received a job of fer in or reassignment to the United States with little notice for the required start
date.
Discretion
The list of examples provided above is not exhaustive. DOS may exercise its discretion to accept
clearly approvable local Form I-130 filings for other exceptional circumstances, unless specifically
noted below . However , such filings must be truly urgent and otherwise limited to situations when filing
with USCIS online or domestically with an expedite request would likely not be suf ficient to address
the time-sensitive and exigent nature of the situation.
DOS may consider a petitioner ’s residency within the consular district when determining whether to
accept a filing, but it is not required.[12]
2. Blanket Filing Authorizations
USCIS may issue a blanket authorization for DOS to exercise its discretion to accept locally-filed
clearly approvable Form I-130 immediate relative petitions in certain situations. Petitioners in these
situations do not need to reside in the country of the U.S. embassy or consulate, but they must meet
the blanket authorization criteria described below in order to file a Form I-130 with DOS.
Temporary Blanket Authorizations for Large Scale Disrupting Events 
In certain events, such as prolonged or severe civil strife or a natural disaster , USCIS may authorize a
blanket authorization for DOS to accept and adjudicate clearly approvable Form I-130 immediate
relative petitions from petitioners directly af fected by such events. If DOS accepts a petition under a
temporary blanket authorization, USCIS must receive notice of the filing and information about the
basis for local acceptance.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1064/2618