Parents of U.S. citizens; and
Unmarried children (under 14 years of age) of lawful permanent residents if they filed a Form I-
485 on their own (or filed a Form I-485 together with their family’ s adjustment applications and
every applicant in that family is eligible for an interview waiver). 
If USCIS determines, however , that an interview for an applicant in any of the above categories is
necessary , an of ficer conducts the interview . Likewise, if USCIS determines that an interview of an
applicant in any other category not listed above is unnecessary , then USCIS may waive the interview .
[5]
2. Military Personnel Petitioners
USCIS may waive the personal appearance of the military spouse petitioner; however , the adjustment
applicant must appear for an interview . USCIS makes every ef fort to reschedule these cases so that
both the petitioner and adjustment applicant can attend the interview before deployment.
The adjustment applicant may choose to proceed while the petitioner is abroad.
3. Incarcerated Petitioners
USCIS may waive the personal appearance of a U.S. citizen spouse petitioner who is incarcerated
and unable to attend the adjustment of status interview . In these situations, the adjustment applicant
must appear for an interview . An of ficer must take all the facts and evidence surrounding each case
into consideration on a case-by-case basis when deciding whether to waive the U.S. citizen spouse
petitioner ’s appearance.
4. Illness or Incapacitation
An of ficer may encounter instances in which it may be appropriate to waive the personal appearance
of an applicant or petitioner due to illness or incapacitation. In all such instances, an of ficer must
obtain supervisory approval to waive the interview .
B. Relocating Cases for Adjustment of Status Interviews
Unless USCIS determines that an interview is unnecessary , the case should be relocated to the field
office with jurisdiction over the applicant’ s place of residence once the case is ready for interview . 
The reasons for requiring an interview may include: 
Need to confirm the identity of the applicant;
Need to validate the applicant’ s immigration status;
The applicant entered the United States without inspection, or there are other unresolved issues
regarding the applicant’ s manner of entry;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1453/2618