If an of ficer grants a benefit in the exercise of discretion where negative factors are present but the
positive factors outweigh the negative factors, the file should contain a record of the of ficer’s
deliberations. The of ficer should clearly annotate the favorable factors in the file. The of ficer should
also annotate the file regarding any consultations that supported the approval in complex or dif ficult
cases. In some situations, the file annotation may be the only record or documentation for other
officers to understand the reasons for the decision.
The of ficer should indicate the rationale for the decision in a clear manner so that it is easily
understandable to others reviewing the file. This may include the of ficer addressing the discretionary
issues in the written decision or by making an annotation in the file.
Unfavorable Exercise of Discretion[72]
If negative factors outweigh the positive factors and USCIS denies the benefit request, the written
decision must contain an analysis of the factors considered in exercising discretion, where possible.
[73]
Negative factors must never be analyzed in a generalized way . The decision must address negative
factors on an individualized basis, applying the totality of the circumstances to the specific facts of the
case. The decision should specify both the positive and negative factors that the of ficer identified and
considered in support of the decision and should explain how the of ficer weighted the dif ferent factors.
The denial notice should set forth the rationale for the decision so that the of ficer’s deliberation may be
understood by the requestor as well as any administrative reviewer (such as the Administrative
Appeals Of fice or immigration judge) and the federal courts.
Articulating Analysis Separately for Discretion and Threshold Eligibility Requirements
In cases involving the negative exercise of discretion, of ficers should generally articulate clearly the
legal analysis of whether the applicant meets the threshold eligibility requirements and then,
separately , the discretionary analysis.
Denying Benefit Requests as a Matter of Discretion
If the of ficer denies a benefit request as a matter of discretion, the of ficer generally must, in the written
notice to the requestor:[74]
Indicate the decision to deny was made as a matter of discretion;
Identify , specifically , each positive factor presented by the facts of the case;
Identify , specifically , each negative factor;
Explain the relative decisional weight given to each negative and positive factor; and
Explain the cumulative weight given to the negative and positive factors, and reason for the
outcome.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 306/2618