The applicant must also submit evidence showing that the investing organization is majority owned
and controlled, directly and indirectly , by U.S. citizens or LPRs of the United States.[7] Such evidence
may include an ownership structure chart outlining the direct and indirect ownership of the
organization together with evidence that the individuals ultimately owning and controlling a majority of
the organization are U.S. citizens or LPRs of the United States. Many investment firms based in the
United States, such as venture capital firms, have a wide range of funding from limited partners that
vest control in U.S. citizen partners who manage and even control the fund.
While USCIS does not require the applicant to establish that at least 50 percent of the capital
contributed to the fund is sourced from U.S. citizens or LPRs, in the venture capital firm context, the
applicant must nevertheless show that the firm is majority owned and controlled, directly and indirectly ,
by U.S. citizens or LPRs.
To demonstrate the individual investor ’s or organization investor ’s successful track record of
investment in start-up entities, the applicant must submit evidence such as, but not limited to, bank
records, wire transfers, debt agreements, equity purchase agreements, equity certificates, equity
ledgers, or capitalization tables.
To satisfy the job creation or revenue generation requirement, the applicant must submit
documentation, such as tax records, payroll records, Employment Eligibility V erification ( Form I-9 )
records, or audited financial statements.
Receipt of the Investment
The applicant must submit evidence that the start-up entity received the investment.[8] Such evidence
may include, but is not limited to:
Equity purchase agreements;
Convertible debt agreements;
Equity certificates;
Equity ledgers;
Capitalization tables;
Audited financial statements;
Bank records;
Wire transfers; and
Other evidence that the investment is a purchase from the start-up entity of its equity , convertible
debt, or other security convertible into its equity commonly used in financing transactions within
such entity’ s industry .
These records must demonstrate the trail of lawfully derived capital from a qualified investor into the
applicant’ s start-up entity . The records must demonstrate that the invested capital was used to8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 827/2618