A copy of the petitioner ’s birth certificate or other evidence of the petitioner ’s age;[2]
Copies of the juvenile court order(s) and administrative document(s), as applicable, that
establish eligibility;
Evidence of the factual basis for the juvenile court’ s determinations; and
A copy of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) consent, if applicable.
The petitioner may file Form I-360  alone or concurrently with the Application to Register Permanent
Residence or Adjust Status ( Form I-485 ), if there is an immigrant visa currently available for the SIJ
immigrant classification and the petitioner is otherwise eligible.[3]
Documentation of Age
An SIJ petitioner should submit documentation of age in the form of a valid birth certificate, of ficial
government-issued identification document, or other document that in USCIS’  discretion establishes
the petitioner ’s age.[4] If primary documentation of birth is not available to the petitioner , USCIS may
consider af fidavits or secondary evidence of age, which may include baptismal certificates, school
records, hospital records, or immunization records, in order to evaluate whether the petitioner has met
the petitioner ’s burden of proof by the preponderance of the evidence. 
Affidavits must be sworn to by persons who have personal knowledge of the event to which they
attest. Any af fidavit must contain the af fiant's full name and address, date and place of birth,
relationship to the petitioner , if any , and complete details concerning how the af fiant acquired
knowledge of the event.
A. Juvenile Court Order(s) and Administrative Documents
1. Qualifying Juvenile Court Determinations
The juvenile court order(s) must provide the required judicial determinations regarding dependency or
custody , parental reunification, and best interests. These determinations may be made in a single
juvenile court order or in separate juvenile court orders. The order(s) should use language establishing
that the specific judicial determinations were made under state law .[5] This requirement may be met if
the order(s) cite those state law(s), or if the petitioner submits supplemental evidence which could
include, for example, a copy of the petition with state law citations, excerpts from relevant state
statutes considered by the state court prior to issuing the order , or briefs or legal arguments submitted
to the court.
USCIS looks at the documents submitted in order to ascertain the role and actions of the court and to
determine whether the proceedings provided relief to the child under the relevant state law(s). The
juvenile court order may use dif ferent legal terms than those found in the Immigration and Nationality8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1419/2618