with the requestor ’s official duties.
Requests from law enforcement agencies outside of DHS must go through DHS Single Point of
Service (SPS) Request for Information (RFI) Management Tool, which requires an account. Account
requests can be submitted to DHS-SPS-RFI@hq.dhs.gov .
Before referring any relevant RFI to USCIS, SPS ensures any RFI is consistent with the USCIS
mission, has been reviewed and cleared by DHS Counsel and Privacy (as required), and is provided a
tracking number . SPS then submits the RFI to Fraud Detection and National Security (FDNS)
Intelligence Division (ID). FDNS ID logs of ficial RFIs and takes the necessary steps to process and
answer them, including review by USCIS Of fice of the Chief Counsel and Of fice of Privacy .
Federal Investigators
If an Of fice of Personnel Management or DHS Of fice of Inspector General (OIG) investigator requests
information, the USCIS employee should provide the information upon verifying the requestor ’s
identity . Disclosure of any information needs to meet a routine use or be covered by a data share
agreement. USCIS employees and contractors must provide prompt access for auditors, inspectors,
investigators, and other personnel authorized by the OIG to any files, records, reports, or other
information that may be requested either orally or in writing, and supervisors may not impede this
cooperation.
Other Third-Party Inquiries
Prior to responding to a non-congressional third-party case inquiry , a written, signed, and notarized
privacy release must be obtained from the applicant or petitioner . Third parties should submit a written
authorization and identify the information the person desires to be disclosed. USCIS staf f can accept
the authorization via facsimile or email as long as the signature on the original is handwritten, and not
typed or stamped.[10] The USCIS Of fice of Privacy will conduct an analysis for disclosure requests for
PII on persons not covered by the Privacy Act or the Judicial Redress Act, absent another mechanism
that confers a right or process by which a member of the public may access agency records.
E. VAWA, T, and U Cases
1. Confidentiality Provisions
Persons eligible for and recipients of victim-based immigration relief (specifically , Violence Against
Women Act (V AWA) self-petitioners[11] as well as applicants and petitioners for , and recipients of, T
and U nonimmigrant status (protected person[12])) are entitled to protections under 8 U.S.C. 1367 .
USCIS also extends the provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1367  to abused spouses of certain persons applying
for employment authorization under INA 106.[13] The governing statute generally prohibits the
unauthorized disclosure of information about petitioners and applicants for , and beneficiaries of V AWA,8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 177/2618