D. Distinction Between Medical Disability Exception and Accommodation
Requesting an exception to the English or civics requirements or both is dif ferent from requesting an
accommodation for the naturalization test or interview .[14] An accommodation simply modifies the
manner in which an applicant meets the educational requirements; it does not exempt the applicant
from the English or civics requirements. Form N-648  is not used to request an accommodation.
Reasonable accommodations may include, but are not limited to, sign language interpreters, extended
time for completing the English and civics requirements, and completing the English and civics
requirements and naturalization interview at an of f-site location. A disability exception, which can only
be requested by submitting Form N-648 , requires an applicant to show that the applicant’ s physical or
developmental disability or mental impairment prevents the applicant from complying with the English
or civics requirements or both, even with reasonable accommodations. The impact of a particular
physical or developmental disability or mental impairment may vary between applicants.
It may be possible for USCIS to accommodate one applicant who is af fected by a particular physical or
developmental disability or mental impairment, while another applicant af fected by the same disability
or impairment may be eligible for a disability exception.[15] For example, an applicant who has a
traumatic brain injury may require the accommodation of more time to complete the writing portion of
the English test, while an applicant with the same diagnosis may not be able to write a simple
sentence in English even with an accommodation, and needs to submit a Form N-648 .
An applicant may request both a medical disability exception and a reasonable accommodation where
both are needed. For example, if an applicant is deaf and uses a sign language interpreter and is also
unable to meet the English and civics requirements due to a physical or developmental disability or
mental impairment, the applicant may submit a Form N-648  and also request that USCIS provide a
sign language interpreter for the naturalization interview .[16]
E. Authorized Medical Professionals
USCIS only authorizes the following licensed medical professionals to certify the disability exception
form:
Medical doctors;
Doctors of osteopathy; and
Clinical psychologists.[17]
These medical professionals must be licensed to practice in any state of the United States, the District
of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the V irgin Islands of the United States, or the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands.
F. Scope of Medical Examination8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2375/2618