If the adjustment application is approved, the ef fective date of permanent residence is the date the
alien was first admitted to the United States as a refugee.
The ef fective date of permanent residence for aliens who are derivative refugees, gained their status
through an approved relative petition, and were already in the United States when the petition was
approved is the date the relative petition was approved.
Code of Admission
An alien who has been granted refugee status in his or her own right (RE-1, classification as a
principal) is adjusted using the code “RE-6.” The RE-6 code should not be used for an alien who is the
former spouse or child of a principal refugee where that relationship terminated after the alien was
granted refugee status. The RE-6 code is reserved solely for the principal refugee to ensure there is
no confusion regarding the eligibility to file a relative petition.
An alien who was admitted as a spouse of a refugee (RE-2 classification) and either remains the
spouse or becomes a former spouse of the principal refugee at time of adjustment is given the code
“RE-7.” An alien who was admitted as a child of a refugee (RE-3 classification) is given the code “RE-
8,” regardless of the alien’ s marital status or current age at time of adjustment.
In cases of nonexistent or fraudulent derivative refugee relationships in which a waiver was granted,
aliens should be given an adjustment code of RE-7 or RE-8, depending on the original admission code
given, even though they are not technically the derivative spouse or child of the principal refugee.
Classes of Aliens and Corresponding Codes of Admission
Alien Code of Admission
Refugee (Principal) RE6
Spouse of a Principal Refugee (RE6) RE7
Child of a Principal Refugee (RE6) RE8
The of ficer must ensure that the alien's new Class of Admission (COA) information is updated in the
appropriate electronic systems, so that the alien receives a Permanent Resident Card. After
completion, A-files are routed to the National Records Center .
2. Denial
If the adjustment application is denied based on inadmissibility , the alien should be placed into
removal proceedings, provided there are applicable grounds of deportability under INA 237.[8]
If the adjustment application is denied based on improper filing, abandonment, or ineligibility , the alien
has not been inspected for admission and should not be placed into removal proceedings because no8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1807/2618