If there is no evidence that the applicant made a false representation of U.S. citizenship for any
purpose or benefit under the INA  or any other federal or state law , the of ficer should find that the
applicant has met the burden of proof and is not inadmissible under this ground. 
2. Evidence of False Misrepresentation
If there is evidence that would permit a reasonable person to conclude that the applicant is
inadmissible under this ground, the of ficer should find that the applicant has not successfully met the
burden of proof.[7] An applicant who fails to meet the burden of proof is inadmissible for falsely
claiming U.S. citizenship unless the applicant is able to successfully rebut the of ficer’s inadmissibility
finding.
3. Applicant’ s Rebuttal Must be Clear and Beyond Doubt
If the of ficer determines that the applicant is inadmissible based on a false claim to U.S. citizenship,
the applicant has the burden of establishing at least one of the following facts clearly and beyond
doubt[8] to rebut the finding: 
The representation was not false;
The false representation was not a representation of U.S. citizenship;
The false representation was made prior to September 30, 1996; or
The false representation was not made for a purpose or benefit under the INA  or any other
federal or state law .[9]
4. Rebutting Inadmissibility Finding 
If the of ficer determines that the applicant has established at least one of the above facts, then the
applicant has successfully rebutted the inadmissibility finding and has met the burden of proving that
he or she is not inadmissible. 
If the of ficer determines that the applicant has established none of these facts, then the applicant has
not successfully rebutted the inadmissibility finding and is inadmissible.[10]
If the of ficer finds that the evidence for and against a finding of false claim to U.S. citizenship is of
equal weight, then the applicant is inadmissible. As long as there is a reasonable evidentiary basis to
conclude that an applicant is inadmissible for falsely claiming U.S. citizenship, and the applicant has
not overcome that reasonable basis with evidence, then the of ficer should find the applicant
inadmissible. 
C. Civil Penalty or Criminal Conviction
Falsely claiming to be a U.S. citizen could result in a civil penalty[11] or in a criminal conviction for
falsely and willfully representing to be a U.S. citizen.[12]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2086/2618