USCIS does not prescribe a set format or length for home study updates. A home study update may
be either:
An update that just addresses the circumstance(s) that require the update; or 
A new and complete home study .
USCIS does not accept addendums or corrections that do not address all necessary requirements.
3. Required Screening and Assessments
The home study preparer must assess if anything has changed since the last home study or home
study update. If so, the home study preparer must assess what changed, and any impact on suitability .
The home study preparer must update the required screenings,[34] which requires that the home study
preparer:
Re-ask the questions about abuse or violence;[35]
Re-ask the questions about criminal history , and if applicable, rehabilitation;[36] and
Update the child abuse registry checks.[37]
For a home study update, the home study preparer only needs the results of such child abuse registry
checks for the current residence and any state or foreign country the P AP or any AMH has resided in
since the prior home study or home study update. The home study preparer does not need to recheck
child abuse registries for prior residences that were included in a prior home study or prior home study
update unless the P AP or any AMH have resided in that state or foreign country since the last check
was completed. Child abuse registry checks for the P AP’s state of residence and any place they have
resided in since the prior home study (or home study update) must be current[38] at the time the home
study preparer signs the home study update.
The home study update must:
Include the dates and results of the required screenings and assessments (the updated child
abuse registry check and responses to the questions on criminal history or history of abuse or
violence);
Fully address anything that has changed since the last home study or home study update; and
Confirm that the other areas of the last home study or home study update have not changed.
4. Recommendation, Signature, and Attestations
The home study update must:
Include a statement from the preparer that the preparer has reviewed the home study being
updated and is personally and fully aware of its contents; and8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 932/2618