The term beneficiary refers to the alien who is the beneficiary of the petition, who in some cases may
also be a self-petitioner .
[^ 2] See Part E, Employment-Based Immigration [ 6 USCIS-PM E ].
Chapter 2 - Extraordinary Ability
A. Eligibility
When seeking classification as a person of extraordinary ability , a petitioner files an Immigrant Petition
for Alien W orkers ( Form I-140 ) on behalf of an alien (who may be the petitioner) with evidence
demonstrating that the beneficiary is eligible.[1]
Eligibility for Extraordinary Ability Classification
The person has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics, which
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim, and whose achievements
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation.
The person seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability .
The person's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the United States in the future.
Self-Petitioners
A petition filed on behalf of a person with extraordinary ability does not need to be supported by a job
offer; therefore, anyone can file the petition on behalf of the person, including the alien who may file as
a self-petitioner .[2] The person must still demonstrate, however , that he or she intends to continue
work in the area of his or her extraordinary ability and that his or her work will substantially benefit the
United States in the future.[3]
1. Sustained National or International Acclaim
When filing a petition for a person with extraordinary ability , the petitioner must submit evidence that
the person has sustained national or international acclaim and that the person's achievements have
been recognized in the field of expertise.[4] In determining whether the beneficiary has enjoyed
"sustained" national or international acclaim, the of ficer should consider that such acclaim must be
maintained.[5] However , the term sustained does not imply an age limit on the beneficiary . A
beneficiary may be very young or early in his or her career and still be able to show sustained acclaim.
There is also no definitive time frame on what constitutes sustained.
If a person was recognized for a particular achievement, the of ficer should determine whether the
person continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field of expertise since the person8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1147/2618