USCIS rejects petitions that require an approved permanent labor certification if the permanent labor
certification has expired or if the petition is filed without the approved permanent labor certification.
USCIS denies a petition that was inadvertently accepted without a required, valid permanent labor
certification.
2. Exceptions
USCIS continues to accept amended or duplicate petitions that are filed with a copy of a permanent
labor certification that is expired at the time the amended or duplicate petition is filed, if the original
permanent labor certification was submitted in support of a previously filed petition during the
permanent labor certification's validity period. These filings may occur when:
There is a successor-in-interest employer change, which requires a new or amended petition;
The petitioner wishes to file a new petition subsequent to the denial, revocation, or abandonment
of the previously filed petition, and the permanent labor certification was not invalidated due to
material misrepresentation or fraud relating to the labor certification application;
The petitioner files an amended petition to request a dif ferent immigrant visa classification than
the classification requested in the previously filed petition; or
USCIS or U.S. Department of State (DOS) determines that the previously filed petition has been
lost.
Petitioners may not appeal a USCIS decision to deny a petition that is filed with an expired permanent
labor certification issued by DOL.[12]
3. Validity Periods Ending on W eekends or Federal Holidays
The petitioner must file a petition supported by an approved permanent labor certification during the
certification’ s validity period as established by DOL. Where the last day of a validity period falls on a
Saturday , Sunday , or federal holiday , USCIS considers the petition to be timely if USCIS receives it by
the end of the next business day .[13] As such, when the last day of the filing period falls on a Saturday ,
Sunday , or federal holiday , the deadline is extended until the end of the next business day that is not a
Saturday , Sunday , or federal holiday .
USCIS considers electronically-filed petitions to be received immediately upon submission; therefore,
these filings are not af fected by USCIS mailroom closures.
C. Original and Duplicate Permanent Labor Certification Requirements
While photocopies of other initial supporting documents are generally acceptable, the petitioner must
submit the original permanent labor certification unless it has already been filed with another petition.
[14]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1117/2618