Service member ’s Form DD1 172 (Application for Uniformed Services Identification Card DEERS
Enrollment) naming dependents.
B. Spouses of Military Members
The table below serves as a quick reference guide to certain residence, physical presence, and
overseas naturalization provisions for spouses of service members. The paragraphs that follow the
table provide further guidance on each provision.[6]
Residence, Physical Presence, and Overseas Naturalization for Spouses of Members of the
U.S. Armed Forces
INA Section ResidencePhysical
PresenceTreatment of
Time R esiding Abr oadOverseas
Naturaliza tion
316(a)LPR for 5
years30 monthsTime residing with U.S. citizen
spouse serving abroad may be
treated as residence and
physical presence in the United
States ( INA 319(e) )May complete
entire
naturalization
process from
abroad319(a)LPR for 3
years18 months
319(b)Must be LPR but no specified period of residence or physical
presence is requiredMust complete
interview and oath
in United States
1. Spouses of Service Members (INA  316(a) and INA  319(a))
Spouses of service members may qualify for naturalization through the general naturalization
provision or on the basis of their marriage to a U.S. citizen.[7] The general provision applies
to spouses who have been LPRs for 5 years immediately preceding the date of filing the naturalization
application.[8] Naturalization on the basis of marriage applies to spouses of U.S. citizens who have
been LPRs for 3 years immediately preceding the date of filing the naturalization application and who
have lived in marital union with their citizen spouses for those 3 years.[9]
2. Spouses of Military Members who are or will be Stationed or Deployed Abroad (INA  319(b))
The law permits expedited naturalization in the United States for eligible spouses of U.S. citizen
service members who are or will be stationed or deployed abroad.[10] This provision does not require
any prior period of residence or specified period of physical presence within the United States for any
LPR spouse of a U.S. citizen who is an employee of the United States Government (including a
member of the U.S. armed forces) or recognized nonprofit organization who is stationed abroad in
such employment for at least one year .[11]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2559/2618