Category
8 CFR
274a.12Purpose Maximum Initial V alidity PeriodMaximum
Renewal V alidity
Period
(c)(35)Form I-140 beneficiary with
compelling circumstances1 year 1 year
(c)(36) Dependents of (c)(35) 1 year 1 year
(c)(37) CNMI long-term residents 5 years 5 years
USCIS considers various factors when establishing validity periods for EADs, including the validity
period of the underlying immigration status or circumstance, anticipated adjudication timeframes for
pending immigration benefits, and the periodic need to reevaluate eligibility for employment
authorization, EAD, or both, and to ensure that such aliens continue to pose no known security risk to
the United States.
The validity date of the initial EAD begins on the date of approval. Generally , the same applies to Form
I-765 renewal requests. 
Validity Period for Replacements
USCIS approves a replacement EAD for the same validity dates and category as the original EAD.
Validity Period for Age Outs
For certain categories[63] where the applicant is a dependent child and will reach the age of 21 during
the established validity period, USCIS provides an EAD expiration date that is the day before the
applicant’ s 21st birthday .
2. Denial
If USCIS cannot verify the applicant’ s identity , the applicant fails to establish eligibility (including, if
applicable, failing to warrant a favorable exercise of discretion) or abandons the application, USCIS
denies the application. When USCIS denies Form I-765, USCIS notifies the applicant in writing of the
decision and the reasons for denial.[64] There is no appeal from a denial of a Form I-765. However , an
applicant may submit a motion to reopen or reconsider .[65] Furthermore, denial of Form I-765 does not
preclude the applicant from filing again if eligibility for employment authorization can be established.
D. Early Filing
If an applicant files for a renewal EAD more than 180 days before the current EAD expires and USCIS
approves such request, USCIS generally does not backdate or postdate the renewal EAD in relation to8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2209/2618