An of ficer should record the applicant’ s admission date for permanent residence as follows.
The Liberian principal applicant’ s admission date is either:
The earliest arrival date in the United States from which the applicant establishes residence in
the United States; or
November 20, 2014 (if the applicant cannot establish residence earlier).[33]
An eligible family member ’s admission is either:
The earliest arrival date in the United States from which the applicant establishes residence in
the United States; or
The receipt date of the applicant’ s adjustment application (if the applicant cannot establish
residence earlier).[34]
Family members receive the full rollback provision, even if the date precedes the date of the qualifying
marriage or the Liberian principal applicant’ s date of admission.
For both Liberian principal applicants and eligible family members, of ficers should review the nature of
all arrivals and departures and absences from the United States to determine if the applicant
abandoned residence in the United States. For example, an applicant who first arrived as a
nonimmigrant tourist (B-2) and timely departed the United States would not have begun a period of
residence but a subsequent arrival may begin a period of residence. Similarly , an applicant who first
arrived as a nonimmigrant tourist (B-2) and never departed could have begun a period of residence. In
such a case, any subsequent long absences from the United States (after the applicant’ s first arrival)
may indicate that the applicant no longer intended to live in the United States, so the applicant’ s
admission date for permanent residence might not roll back to the applicant’ s earliest arrival date. The
applicant bears the burden to establish the earliest arrival date from which he or she established
residency in the United States.
Rollback Provision and Rescission
In the case of an applicant who adjusts under LRIF and received an admission date for permanent
residence pursuant to the LRIF “rollback” provision, the 5 year time period for any rescission
proceedings is measured from the actual date on which the adjustment was granted, not on the date
to which the adjustment was rolled back.[35]
3. Denials
USCIS must deny the adjustment application if the applicant does not meet all the eligibility
requirements outlined in LRIF . Although there are no appeal rights for the denial of an adjustment
application, the applicant may file a motion to reopen or reconsider . The denial notice should include
instructions for filing a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ).[36]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1865/2618