organization, their U.S. employment for the qualifying organization need not be in a managerial,
executive, or specialized knowledge capacity to af fect the dates of the relevant 3-year period used to
determine whether the 1-year foreign employment requirement has been satisfied.
For example, if a beneficiary worked in the United States in valid H-1B status for a qualifying
organization from January 2, 2017 through January 2, 2018, and the petitioner filed for L-1
nonimmigrant status for the employee on January 2, 2018, the relevant 3-year period is from January
1, 2014 to January 1, 2017.
On the other hand, the time a beneficiary spent working while in a dependent status does not result in
an adjustment of the 3-year period. For example, time spent by a beneficiary in L-2 status does not
result in an adjustment of the 3-year period, because the beneficiary was admitted as an L-2 to join
the L-1 principal and not to work for a qualifying organization.
Likewise, if a beneficiary was admitted as an F-1 nonimmigrant and later applies for optional practical
training (OPT) employment with the qualifying organization, the time spent in F-1 nonimmigrant status
does not result in an adjustment to the 3-year period, because the purpose of admission was for study
and not to work for the qualifying organization.
The time a beneficiary spent in the United States working for an unrelated employer , or not working at
all, also does not result in an adjustment of the 3-year period. A break longer than 2 years in
employment with the qualifying organization during the 3 years preceding the filing of the L-1 petition
renders the beneficiary unable to meet the 1-year foreign employment requirement.
Periods the beneficiary spent in the United States without working (except for brief visits for business
or pleasure in B-1 or B-2 status), or while working for an unrelated employer , interrupt the 1-year
continuous foreign employment requirement, and of ficers should not adjust the 3-year period.
An otherwise eligible beneficiary may again qualify for the L-1 classification following a new 1-year
period during which the beneficiary is employed by the qualifying organization abroad in a managerial,
executive, or specialized knowledge capacity .
The relevant point in time for an of ficer to determine whether a beneficiary satisfies the 1-year foreign
employment requirement is the date on which the petitioner filed the initial L-1 petition, regardless of
when the beneficiary was, or will be, admitted to the United States.
5. Calculating 1-Y ear Period
Officers should take the following steps when determining whether the petitioner has established the
1-year foreign employment requirement. Of ficers should always look back 3 years from the date the
initial L-1 petition was filed and then follow the steps listed in the table below .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 500/2618