If the F orm N-648 is insuf ficient a t the na turaliza tion e xamina tion or hearing:
When an interpreter is available, the of ficer must explain the deficiencies to the alien in his or
her preferred language. If an interpreter is unavailable or was disqualified by USCIS, the
officer will then explain in detail why the form is insuf ficient in writing in the form of an RFE or
written decision as applicable. 
USCIS proceeds with the interviewing and testing as if no Form N-648 was submitted.
USCIS must provide the alien with an opportunity to complete all portions of the English and
civics requirements.
An alien has two opportunities to pass the English and civics tests before the application for
naturalization is adjudicated: once during the initial examination and then again during a re-
examination, which is scheduled if the requirements are not passed at the initial examination.
If an alien refuses to attempt taking the tests, this is treated as a failed attempt. If the alien
declines to proceed, the of ficer must document the refusal and explain the consequences to
the alien in their preferred language, using an interpreter if necessary .
Failure to appear for re-examination or hearing on a denial without good cause, or to complete
the English or civics requirements for any reason, results in a denial of the application.
I. Interview , Re-Examination, and Hearing after an Insufficient Form N-648
1. Initial Interview
Passing the English and Civics Requirements
If an alien’ s Form N-648  is found to be insuf ficient, but the alien subsequently meets the English and
civics requirements[32] in the same examination:
The of ficer must provide the applicant the opportunity to proceed with the rest of the
naturalization interview to determine if the applicant meets the other applicable eligibility
requirements.
The of ficer should not determine that the applicant engaged in fraud or lacks good moral
character for the sole reason that the applicant met the educational requirements after
submitting an insuf ficient Form N-648.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2383/2618