Along with the supporting documentation, a statutorily mandated consultation process exists for all P
petitions.[17] This consultation must be from an appropriate labor organization and address the nature
of the work to be done and the person’ s qualifications or , for certain classifications, the organization
may indicate it has no objection to approval of the petition.[18] The petitioner has the burden of
furnishing a consultation.
The source and contents of the consultation varies, depending upon the type of petition as shown in
the table below .
Consultation Requirement
Petition Source and Contents of Consultation
P-1Consultation with an appropriate labor organization is required if one exists. The
consultation must evaluate the person's (group's) qualifications and state whether
the services or performances are appropriate for an internationally recognized
athlete or entertainment group.[19] The labor organization may also issue a letter of
no objection.
P-2Consultation with an appropriate labor organization to verify that a bona fide
reciprocal agreement exists.[20]
P-3Consultation with an appropriate labor organization to evaluate the cultural
uniqueness of the entertainer(s) and whether the performances are in a cultural
program appropriate for the P-3 classification.[21] The labor organization may also
issue a letter of no objection.
Essential
Support
PersonnelConsultation with an appropriate labor organization. Consultation must evaluate the
essential character of the work, the relationship between the principal and support
workers, and the availability of U.S. workers to do the job.[22] The labor
organization may also issue a letter of no objection.
The regulations specify mandatory response times for consultations for expedited cases and prescribe
action to be taken when a requested opinion is not received.[23] The consultations are advisory in
nature only and are not binding on USCIS.[24] A negative consultation does not automatically result in
the denial of the petition, as decisions must be based on the totality of the evidence. Accordingly , if the
petitioner submits evidence that overcomes a negative advisory opinion and which establishes the
merits of the person, USCIS may approve the petition.
2. Petitions Meriting Expedited Processing
If USCIS has determined that a petition merits expeditious handling, USCIS contacts the appropriate
labor organization and requests an advisory opinion if one is not submitted by the petitioner . The8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 587/2618