immigrant broadcasters may not file the adjustment application concurrently with the petition.
Verifying the Underlying Basis to Adjust Status and Determining Ongoing Eligibility[15]
The special immigrant broadcaster petition should already be adjudicated and approved when the
officer adjudicates the adjustment application. USCIS does not re-adjudicate the special immigrant
broadcaster petition at the time of the adjudication of the adjustment application. However , the of ficer
should ensure that the applicant remains classified as a special immigrant broadcaster and thus is
eligible to adjust as a special immigrant broadcaster . As a result, there may be instances when USCIS
may require the applicant to provide additional evidence to show he or she continues to be classified
as a special immigrant broadcaster . In other words, the of ficer must verify the status of any underlying
immigrant petition that forms the basis for adjustment.
2. Bars to Adjustment
Special immigrant broadcasters and their dependents are ineligible for adjustment of status if any of
the bars to adjustment of status apply .[16]
3. Admissibility and W aiver Requirements
In general, an applicant who is inadmissible to the United States may only obtain LPR status if he or
she obtains a waiver or other form of relief, if available.[17] In general, if a ground of inadmissibility
applies, an applicant must apply for a waiver or other form of relief to overcome that inadmissibility .[18]
If a waiver or other form of relief is granted, USCIS may approve the application to adjust status if the
applicant is otherwise eligible. 
The following table specifies which grounds of inadmissibility apply and which do not apply to
applicants seeking LPR status based on the special immigrant broadcaster classification.
Applicability of Grounds of Inadmissibility: Special Immigrant Broadcasters
Ground of Inadmissibility AppliesExempt or Not
Applicable
INA 212(a)(1)  – Health-Related X  
INA 212(a)(2)  – Crime-Related X  
INA 212(a)(3)  – Security-Related X  8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1718/2618