The specific documentation or information that the of ficer is requesting;
The ways in which the applicant may respond; and
The date by which the applicant has to reply .
The applicant must respond to the Request for Evidence within the timeframe specified by the of ficer.
If the applicant timely submits the evidence as requested, the of ficer makes a decision on the
applicant’ s eligibility . If the applicant fails to submit the evidence as requested, the of ficer may
adjudicate the application based on the available evidence.[6]
2. Scheduling Subsequent Re-examination
If an applicant fails any portion of the naturalization test, an of ficer must provide the applicant a
second opportunity to pass the test within 60 to 90 days after the initial examination unless the
applicant is statutorily ineligible for naturalization based on other grounds.[7] An of ficer should also
schedule a re-examination in order to resolve any issues on eligibility .
The outcome of the re-examination determines whether the of ficer conducting the second interview
continues, approves, or denies the naturalization application.[8]]
If the applicant fails to appear for the re-examination and USCIS does not receive a timely or
reasonable request to reschedule, the of ficer should deny the application based on the applicant’ s
failure to meet the educational requirements for naturalization. The of ficer also should include any
other areas of ineligibility within the denial notice.
C. Denial of Naturalization Application
USCIS must deny a naturalization application when an applicant does not meet all eligibility
requirements under the law . Furthermore, USCIS cannot consider the naturalization application of an
applicant who is in removal proceedings. Therefore, ef fective November 18, 2020, when a removal
proceeding is pending against a naturalization applicant, USCIS denies the naturalization application
under INA  318, except for certain cases involving naturalizations based on military service.[9]
The of ficer should deny the naturalization application if the applicant has already received a final order
of removal from an immigration judge, unless:
The applicant was removed from the United States and later reentered with the proper
documentation and authorization; or
The applicant is filing for naturalization under the military naturalization provisions.[10]
If an of ficer denies a naturalization application, the of ficer must issue the applicant and his or her
attorney or representative a written denial notice no later than 120 days after the initial interview on the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2278/2618