Retired of ficer or employee of an international organization or a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NA TO) (and derivative spouse);
 Surviving spouse of a deceased of ficer or employee of an international organization or NA TO;
and
 Unmarried son or daughter of a current or retired of ficer or employee of an international
organization or NA TO. 
An adjustment applicant applying as a NA TO-6 employee or family member is ineligible for adjustment
of status if any of the bars to adjustment of status apply . However , certain adjustment bars do not
apply to G-4 international organization employees and family members.[7] A G-4 international
organization employee or family member may be eligible to adjust status even if:
The applicant is now employed or has ever been employed in the United States without
authorization; 
The applicant is not in lawful immigration status on the date he or she files the adjustment
application; 
The applicant has ever failed to continuously maintain a lawful status since entry into the United
States; or 
The applicant has ever violated the terms of his or her nonimmigrant visa. 
If a G-4 special immigrant falls under any other adjustment bar , however , he or she is not eligible to
adjust status. 
More information on the adjustment bar applicability and exemptions available to special immigrants is
provided in the program-specific parts of this V olume.
D. Applicants Eligible to Adjust under INA  245(i)
An applicant who is ineligible to adjust status under INA 245(a)  or is barred from adjusting by INA
245(c)  may be eligible to adjust status under INA 245(i) . 
E. Employment-Based Exemption under INA  245(k)
INA 245(k)  provides certain employment-based adjustment applicants with an exemption from the INA
245(c)(2) , INA 245(c)(7) , and INA 245(c)(8)  adjustment bars. 
This exemption applies to an applicant who has not failed to maintain a lawful status, engaged in
unauthorized employment, or violated the terms and conditions of his or her admission for an
aggregate period exceeding 180 days. When determining whether an applicant is eligible for the INA
245(k)  exemption, USCIS only considers the time period following the applicant’ s most recent lawful
admission. Therefore, the exemption applies to:8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1592/2618