An of ficer reviews the specific facts of a case when determining whether a child has been legitimated
accordingly and to determine the appropriate citizenship provision.
C. Adopted Child
An adopted child is a child who has met the requirements applicable for adopted children[24] and has
been adopted through a full, final, and complete adoption.[25]
D. Assisted Reproductive T echnology
1. Background
Assisted Reproductive Technology (AR T) refers to fertility treatments where either the egg or sperm,
or both, is handled outside the body . ART includes intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in vitro
fertilization (IVF), among other reproductive technology procedures.[26] In these procedures, the
parent or parents may use a combination of their own genetic material or donated genetic material
(donated egg, sperm, or both) in order to conceive a child.[27] ART allows a gestational parent to bear
a child to whom the parent does not have a genetic relationship through the use of a donor egg. As
such, a gestational parent could have a biological relationship to the child (by carrying and giving birth
to the child) but not a genetic relationship.
Children Born Outside the United States Through ART
A parent who is the gestational and legal parent of a child under the law of the relevant jurisdiction at
the time of the child’ s birth may transmit U.S. citizenship to the child if all other requirements are met.
[28]
In addition, a non-genetic, non-gestational legal parent of a child born through ART may transmit U.S.
citizenship to the child if the parent is married to the child’ s genetic or gestational parent at the time of
the child’ s birth and both parents are recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal
parents.[29]
2. Child Born Outside the United States through Assisted Reproductive T echnology to Legal
Gestational Parent
A child born through ART may acquire U.S. citizenship from the non-genetic gestational parent at the
time of birth, or after birth, depending on the applicable citizenship or naturalization provision, if:
The child’ s gestational parent is recognized by the relevant jurisdiction as the child’ s legal parent
at the time of the child’ s birth; and
The child meets all other applicable requirements under the relevant citizenship or naturalization
provision.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2461/2618