In addition, if a USCIS of ficial receives a complaint from a newly naturalized citizen, guest of a newly
naturalized citizen, or the state or local election of fice regarding an organization’ s inappropriate
behavior or lack of ability to properly provide voter registration services, field leadership, in
consultation with the USCIS Of fice of the Chief Counsel’ s Ethics Division, may revoke the privilege to
participate upon appropriate inquiry and review of the circumstances.
5. Points-of-Contact for V oting and V oter Registration
If naturalized citizens have questions regarding voting and voter registration, USCIS refers them to:
The governmental or nongovernmental organization of fering voter registration services on-site;
Other information resources within the local area; or
The appropriate of ficial government websites USA.gov Find My State or Local Election
Office, USA.gov Register to V ote, and Vote.gov .
G. Services Provided by Other Government Entities
Federal entities, such as the Department of State’ s Passport Services Division, the Corporation for
National and Community Service, and the Social Security Administration, as well as state and local
governments, may be authorized to provide information and make services available to newly
naturalized citizens and their guests at the conclusion of the administrative naturalization ceremony .
[38] Governmental entities that desire representation at administrative naturalization ceremonies must
seek advance approval from field leadership of the USCIS of fice conducting the ceremony .
H. Participation of V olunteers and Civic Organizations
Field leadership may permit volunteers from the community , community-based organizations, and civic
organizations to participate in various roles during the administrative naturalization ceremony . For
example, Field leadership may have the U.S. armed forces color guard perform the presentation of
colors and the national anthem or have volunteers lead the Pledge of Allegiance.
Field leadership will determine the appropriate level of participation for the occasion. However , under
no circumstances will any non-USCIS employee perform any USCIS function.[39]
Field leadership must review the qualifications, designate the level of participation, and oversee the
participation of all volunteers and organizations during the administrative naturalization ceremony . In
addition, non-USCIS participants must not engage in political, religious, or commercial activity of any
kind.
I. Offers to Donate Use of Facilities
USCIS may generally accept of fers to donate use of facilities unless they present a conflict of interest
or appearance of a conflict of interest. Facilities[40] should be neutral and generally not af filiated with8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2588/2618