Evidence (RFE) to give the applicant an additional opportunity to provide testimony , a statement, or to
submit evidence to demonstrate eligibility for the modification.
Results
If an applicant qualifies for a modified oath, USCIS omits only the relevant clauses and the applicant
recites the modified form of the oath at the regularly scheduled public naturalization ceremony .[8] An
applicant who does not qualify for the modification is required to take the full oath. Otherwise, the
applicant is not eligible for naturalization.
B. Affirmation of Allegiance in Lieu of Oath
An applicant may request an af firmation in lieu of an oath. The applicant may request this af firmation
in lieu of an oath for any reason.[9] In these cases: 
The applicant substitutes the words “solemnly af firm” for the words “on oath”; and
 The applicant does not recite the words “so help me God.”[10]
USCIS grants this modification solely upon the applicant’ s request. The applicant is not required to
establish that the request is based solely on his or her religious training and belief. Applicants are not
required to provide any documentary evidence or testimony to support a request to substitute the
words “on oath” or “so help me God.” 
USCIS must not require the applicant to recite the deleted portions of the Oath of Allegiance at the
ceremony . The of ficer informs the applicant that he or she is not required to recite the deleted portions
and that the applicant may take the oath in the modified form.
C. W aiver of the Oath
1. Oath of Allegiance W aiver
Oath W aiver Based on a Physical or Developmental Disability or Mental Impairment
USCIS may waive the Oath of Allegiance for an applicant who is unable to understand or to
communicate an understanding of its meaning because of a physical or developmental disability or
mental impairment.[11]
An applicant for whom USCIS granted an oath waiver is considered to have met the requirement of
attachment to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and be well disposed to the good
order and happiness of the United States for the required period.
An applicant who needs an oath waiver because of a physical or developmental disability or mental
impairment, may make this request, with the assistance of a legal guardian, surrogate, or designated
representative, on a Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions ( Form N-648 ).[12] An applicant is8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2574/2618