any response, that suspension, debarment, or termination is warranted, USCIS issues a final notice of
sanction explaining the reasons for the sanction.
USCIS may issue sanctions to more than one party for any given violation as needed. Each individual
or entity receives their own notice for each sanction. For example, USCIS may both terminate a
regional center and suspend an associated party .
USCIS may also issue more than one sanction to the same individual or entity for any given violation
as needed. For example, USCIS may first suspend, but later , after a new notice of intent to sanction,
terminate a regional center if the regional center does not take remedial action or new facts support a
different sanction.
If USCIS terminates a regional center , it may end other sanctions against the entity . USCIS includes
any such decision about earlier sanctions in the final notice of sanction.
A sanctioned individual or entity may appeal the sanction to the Administrative Appeals Of fice (AAO).
[2] Each party who receives their own notice of sanction must file their own appeal if they wish to
contest the sanction.
Where applicable, USCIS considers all relevant factors when deciding on the appropriate severity of
the sanction, including, but not limited to:
History of previous violations, including violations that predate March 15, 2022, and violations of
other areas of the law;[3]
The willfulness or recklessness of the violation, including concealment of material facts or
prohibited actions;
Good faith attempts to achieve rapid compliance after notification of a violation;
Harm to the reputation or integrity of the EB-5 program;
Cooperation with USCIS or other governmental agencies;
Any relevant disciplinary history;
If an entity , senior management’ s awareness of and involvement in the conduct;
If an entity , the entity’ s risk management process, the comprehensive nature of its monitoring
plan, and resource allocation;
If an entity , the level of training and communication about misconduct;
If an entity , its reporting structure and investigation process;
If an entity , the level of due diligence to its third party relationships;
If an entity , the impact of such a sanction on innocent parties;
Whether the violation involved a national security or public safety concern; and
Whether the violation involved either multiple or repeated instances of fraud or material
misrepresentation.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1316/2618