A criminal disposition;
A sworn statement; and
A Record of Arrests and Prosecutions sheet (police arrest record). 
If the of ficer identifies that the applicant is inadmissible, the of ficer should then determine whether a
waiver or other type of relief is available and whether the applicant meets the eligibility requirements
for the relief.[3]
B. Grounds Included in W aiver Application
The of ficer must review all inadmissibility grounds that the applicant lists in the waiver application. If
the applicant states that he or she is inadmissible but there is no evidence of inadmissibility in the
record, then the of ficer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE). The of ficer should request that the
applicant provide a written statement explaining why the applicant thinks he or she is
inadmissible. The of ficer should proceed with the waiver adjudication if the of ficer determines that the
applicant is inadmissible.
An applicant may file a waiver application after another government agency , such as the Department
of State or CBP , has found the applicant inadmissible. In general, USCIS accepts another government
agency’ s finding of inadmissibility . The of ficer should only question another government agency’ s
inadmissibility determination if:
The government agency’ s finding was clearly erroneous; or
The applicant has shown that he or she is clearly not inadmissible.
The of ficer should work with the other government agency to resolve the issue through appropriate
procedures.
C. Grounds Not Included in W aiver Application
If the of ficer identifies additional inadmissibility grounds based on events that are not included in the
waiver application, the of ficer should notify the applicant and the applicant’ s representative, if
applicable. The of ficer should follow current USCIS guidance on the issuance of RFEs, Notices of
Intent to Deny (NOID), and Denials. 
Footnotes
[^ 1] For more on admissibility determinations, see V olume 8, Admissibility [ 8 USCIS-PM ].
[^ 2] When verifying the inadmissibility , the of ficer may determine that the applicant is admissible and
does not require a waiver . For more on admissibility determinations, see V olume 8, Admissibility [ 88/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2097/2618