The current month’ s DV availability chart; or
The advance notification chart for the next month.[55]
Although a selectee may file an adjustment application based on the advance notification chart,
USCIS cannot approve an adjustment application unless and until DOS allocates a DV based on the
current month’ s chart.
3. When USCIS May Approve Adjustment of Status Applications
USCIS may only approve an otherwise eligible adjustment of status application if the selectee has a
visa number immediately available and DOS allocates a visa number for the applicant’ s case. When a
rank number is listed in the current month’ s DV availability chart of the V isa Bulletin, it means visa
numbers are available for DOS to allocate to selectees with rank numbers below that month’ s
specified cut-of f number .
There may be months when one or more of the DV regions are listed as current on the V isa Bulletin.
This means visas are currently (or immediately) available to all selectees for that region regardless of
rank number . On the other hand, if the annual limit for DVs has been reached and no more DVs can
be allocated, the category will become unavailable in the V isa Bulletin. If DVs become unavailable
after the V isa Bulletin is published, it is not updated mid-month, but DOS notifies USCIS of the
unavailability of DVs within a region or specific country of birth.
4. Reading the V isa Bulletin Charts for DV Adjustment of Status
This section provides examples of past V isa Bulletin DV allocation and advance notification charts to
clarify the adjustment of status process for DV -based applicants.
DV Allocation and Advance Notification of DV Availability
The Visa Bulletin for March 2019  published the DV allocation chart for March 2019, which also
included the advance notification chart for April 2019. The below table includes data from those two
charts.
March 2019 V isa Bulletin
Region(Visa Allocation for
March 2019)
All DV Chargeability
Areas Except Those
Listed SeparatelyRegion(Advance Notification
for April 2019)
All DV Chargeability
Areas Except Those
Listed Separately
AFRICA 15,300 AFRICA 18,9008/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1740/2618