The beneficiary of a petition for outstanding professor or researcher must be seeking to work for a
university; an institution of higher education; or a department, division, or institute of a private
employer if the department, division, or institute employs at least three persons full time in research
activities and has achieved documented accomplishments in an academic field.[36]
In general, positions with government agencies at the federal, state, or local level do not fit within the
statutory framework unless the government agency is shown to be a U.S. university or an institution of
higher learning.[37] Therefore, USCIS may only approve a petition for outstanding professor or
researcher in instances where the of fer of permanent employment is from a government agency if that
agency can establish that it is a U.S. university or an institution of higher learning. Government
agencies do not qualify as private employers.
Government agencies that do not fit the statutory framework may have other available immigration
avenues for of fers of permanent employment to professors or researchers. For example, assuming all
of the eligibility requirements for that visa preference category have been met, a government agency
may file a petition for the person under the extraordinary ability classification.[38]
D. Offer of Employment
1. Research Positions
The petitioner must submit evidence to establish that the job of fer is for a permanent research
position.[39] Officers should not deny a petition where the employer is seeking an outstanding
researcher solely because the actual employment contract or of fer of employment does not contain a
“good cause for termination” clause. The petitioning employer , however , must still establish that the
offer of employment is intended to be of an indefinite or unlimited duration and that the nature of the
position is such that the employee will ordinarily have an expectation of continued employment.
For example, many research positions are funded by grant money received on a yearly basis.
Researchers, therefore, are sometimes employed under employment contracts that are valid in 1-year
increments. If the petitioning employer demonstrates, however , the intent to continue to seek funding
and a reasonable expectation that funding will continue (such as demonstrated prior renewals for
extended long-term research projects), such employment can be considered permanent within the
meaning of the regulation.[40] Officers should also consider the circumstances surrounding the job
offer as well as the benefits attached to the position. A position that appears to be limited to a specific
term, such as in the example above, can meet the regulatory test if the position normally continues
beyond the term (that is, if the funding grants are normally renewed).
2. Tenure or T enure-T rack Positions
The determination as to whether a position qualifies as a tenured or a tenure-track position is not
linked to the regulatory requirement that the position be permanent.[41] The definition of permanent8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1179/2618