The date of visa availability is the date of petition approval or the first day of the month of the DOS
Visa Bulletin that indicates availability for that immigrant preference category , priority date, and country
of chargeability according to the Final Action Dates chart, whichever is later .[54] From the date of visa
availability , aliens in the family-sponsored or employment-based preference categories, or those
applying based on the DV program, have 1 year in which to seek to acquire permanent resident status
in order to qualify for CSP A coverage.[55]
While the Final Action Dates chart determines the date of visa availability for purposes of the CSP A
age calculation and the 1-year sought to acquire period, an alien may choose to file an adjustment of
status application based on the Dates for Filing chart if eligible. In this case, the alien files prior to the
date of visa availability according to the Final Action Dates chart.
If an alien files an adjustment application based on the Dates for Filing chart before the visa is
available according to the Final Action Dates chart, the alien still meets the sought to acquire
requirement. However , his or her CSP A age calculation is still dependent on visa availability according
to the Final Action Dates chart.[56] Aliens who file based on the Dates for Filing chart may ultimately
not be considered a child for immigration purposes under CSP A once the visa becomes available if the
CSPA age calculation is 21 or older based on the Final Action Dates chart.
Impact of V isa Unavailability on the 1-Y ear Sought to Acquire Requirement
When a visa becomes unavailable to the alien before a continuous 1-year period has elapsed, the
alien has another 1-year period to seek to acquire when the visa next becomes available. The alien
has 1 year from the next time the visa becomes available according to the Final Action Dates chart to
seek to acquire LPR status.
A visa is continuously available for a 1-year period if, during each month of that year , the alien has a
priority date for an approved petition that is earlier than the date for his or her country of chargeability
and immigrant preference category on the Final Action Dates chart in the DOS V isa Bulletin.
If a continuous 1-year period of visa availability elapsed and the alien did not seek to acquire during
the 1-year period, the alien cannot benefit from the age-out protections of CSP A. The alien already
had a continuous 1-year period in which to seek to acquire.
Example 1
A visa initially becomes available to the alien according to the Final Action Dates chart on October 1,
2020. The visa remains available to the alien for 4 months, that is, through the end of January 2021.
The alien decides not to apply for adjustment of status between October 1, 2020, and the end of
January 2021.
On February 1, 2021, a visa is no longer available to the alien under the Final Action Dates chart and
the alien is no longer eligible to file an adjustment of status application. A visa next becomes available8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1485/2618