the MPTV industry .[10] This interpretation reflects USCIS’  longstanding practice, and is consistent with
the statute, which includes more stringent consultation requirements for aliens “seeking entry for a
motion picture or television production,” and describes eligibility for aliens in this industry separately
from those in the “arts,” notwithstanding the artistic nature of their work.[11]
USCIS generally does consider the people employed by the production company to conduct the
interview , film the broadcasts, or otherwise perform as paid professionals, to be working in the MPTV
industry . Similarly , USCIS considers persons such as hosts or judges cast in a reality-based
production to be working in the MPTV industry whereas USCIS does not consider the contestants to
be working in the MPTV industry .
B. Determining Eligibility for O-1 Classification
For an O-1 Petition for a Nonimmigrant W orker ( Form I-129 ), the of ficer must determine whether the
beneficiary meets the relevant standard outlined in the statute and regulations.”[12] The regulations
describe the various types of evidence the petitioner must submit in support of a petition for each type
of O-1 beneficiary . In general, the petition must be accompanied by either evidence of receipt of (or in
some categories nomination for) a qualifying award, or at least three alternate forms of evidence.
However , an of ficer cannot make a favorable determination simply because the petitioner has
submitted the forms of documentation described in the regulations.
As explained in the preamble to the final rule, the evidentiary requirements are not the standard for the
classification, but are instead the mechanism for establishing whether the standard is met.[13]
Accordingly , the fact that the petitioner has produced evidence satisfying at least three evidentiary
criteria does not necessarily establish that the beneficiary is eligible for the O-1 classification.[14]
Rather , USCIS must determine eligibility based on whether the totality of the evidence submitted
demonstrates that the beneficiary meets the relevant standard.
More specifically , an of ficer first determines whether the petitioner has submitted evidence meeting the
minimum number of criteria or submitted evidence that the beneficiary received a qualifying award (or
nomination, if applicable). If the petitioner meets the evidentiary requirements, the of ficer must then
consider all the evidence in the record in its totality to determine if the beneficiary is an alien of
extraordinary ability or achievement as defined in INA 101(a)(15)(O)(i)  and 8 CFR 214.2(o) .
Satisfying the Evidentiary Requirements
The analysis in this step is limited to determining whether the evidence submitted is comprised of
either a qualifying award (or nomination, if applicable), or at least three of the applicable alternate
criteria. In determining whether an evidentiary criterion is met, an of ficer should evaluate the evidence
to determine if it falls within the parameters of the applicable regulation. While an of ficer should
consider whether the submitted evidence meets the language of the regulations to determine whether
a particular regulatory criterion has been met, no determination is made during this step as to whether8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 534/2618