must have authorized the alien to enter the United States after the alien came to the port-of-entry and
sought admission as an alien.[37]
However , the law and precedents relating to what qualifies as the admission of an alien do not apply
to U.S. citizens and nationals. U.S. citizens and nationals are not subject to the same inspection
process as aliens. If CBP  believes the person is a U.S. citizen or national, CBP  cannot prevent the
person’ s return to the United States. It is well-settled that someone who is allowed to come into the
United States as a U.S. citizen or national has not been admitted.[38]
Therefore, an alien who comes into the United States under a false claim to U.S. citizenship is not only
inadmissible for falsely claiming U.S. citizenship, but may also be inadmissible as an alien who is in
the United States without inspection and admission or parole.[39]
An alien who comes into the United States based on a false claim to U.S. nationality  is not
inadmissible under the provision relating to false claims to citizenship.[40] However , the person may be
inadmissible as an alien who is in the United States without inspection and admission or parole.
6. False Claim Made by an Agent or Representative
If an applicant’ s attorney or agent makes the false representation, the applicant is held responsible.
This includes oral misrepresentations made at the border by a person assisting an alien to enter
illegally . Furthermore, an alien cannot deny responsibility for any misrepresentation made by the alien
based on the advice of another person.
E. Timely Retraction
 Case law relating to the inadmissibility ground for fraud or willful misrepresentation has long
recognized that an alien is not inadmissible if he or she made a timely retraction of the fraud or
misrepresentation.[41] If an alien timely retracts the statement, it acts as a defense to the
inadmissibility ground. A USCIS of ficer would then decide the case as if the fraud or misrepresentation
had never happened.
In principle, an alien might also timely retract a false claim to U.S. citizenship. If the alien does so, he
or she would not be inadmissible for this inadmissibility ground. The retraction has to be voluntary and
timely in order to be ef fective.[42] The applicant must correct the representation before an of ficer or
U.S. government of ficial challenges the applicant’ s truthfulness and before the conclusion of the
proceeding during which the applicant gave false testimony . A retraction can be voluntary and timely if
made in response to an of ficer’s question during which the of ficer gives the applicant a chance to
explain or correct a potential misrepresentation.
Admitting to the false representation after USCIS has challenged the veracity of the claim is not a
timely retraction.[43] For example, an applicant’ s recantation of the false testimony is neither voluntary8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2080/2618