In May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), a collection of our immigration
policies and procedures. W e are working quickly to update and incorporate all of the AFM content into
the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency’ s centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until
then, we have moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding Policy Manual Part. To the
extent that a provision in the Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy
Memoranda , the updated information in the Policy Manual prevails. If you have questions or concerns
about any discrepancies among these resources, contact PolicyFeedback@uscis.dhs.gov .
AFM Chapter 54 - Advance Parole Documents and Boarding Letters (External)
Part F - Arrival-Departure Records
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose and Background
DHS issues an Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94) to certain non-resident aliens upon their arrival in
the United States or when they change status or extend their stay in the United States.[1] DHS uses
Form I-94 to document arrival and departure and provide evidence of the terms of admission or
parole. While some aliens are still issued a paper Form I-94, many are not; instead, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP) creates an electronic Form I-94 record.[2]
B. Legal Authorities
8 CFR 1.4  - Definition of Form I-94
8 CFR 264.6  - Application for a nonimmigrant arrival-departure record
Footnotes
[^ 1] In addition, the USCIS Asylum Division issues Form I-94 to persons granted asylum at an asylum
office. In certain circumstances, USCIS also issues Form I-94 as temporary evidence of a Permanent
Resident Card (Form I-551) to persons granted lawful permanent resident (LPR) status. Asylees and
those who have Form I-94 as a temporary Form I-551 cannot use the Application for
Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival-Departure Document ( Form I-102 ) to replace a lost,
mutilated, or destroyed Form I-94. Instead, they must contact a USCIS field of fice or the asylum of fice
with jurisdiction over their current residence to obtain a replacement or corrected Form I-94. Those
who obtained derivative asylee status through a Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition ( Form I-730 ) may
file a Form I-102 to obtain a replacement or corrected Form I-94.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2253/2618