USCIS is authorized to cancel any Certificate of Citizenship or Certificate of Naturalization in cases
where USCIS considers that the certificate was:
Illegally or fraudulently obtained; or
Created through illegality or by fraud.[2]
USCIS issues the person a written notice of the intention to cancel the certificate. The notice must
include the reason or reasons for the intent to cancel the certificate. The person has 60 days from the
date the notice was issued to respond with reasons as to why the certificate should not be cancelled
or to request a hearing.[3]A cancellation of certificate under this provision only cancels the certificate
and does not af fect the underlying citizenship status of the person, if any , in whose name the
certificate was issued. 
When considering whether to initiate cancellation proceedings, it is important to distinguish between
Certificates of Citizenship and Certificates of Naturalization. In general, USCIS issues Certificates of
Citizenship to persons who automatically acquire citizenship by operation of law . If it is determined that
the person in whose name the Certificate of Citizenship was issued did not lawfully acquire citizenship,
USCIS can initiate cancellation proceedings.[4]
However , such a person may have an additional basis upon which to claim automatic acquisition of
citizenship. Accordingly , if that person’ s Certificate of Citizenship is cancelled by USCIS, but the
person subsequently provides evidence that he or she automatically acquired citizenship through
some other basis, the cancellation of the first Certificate of Citizenship does not af fect the new
citizenship claim. 
By contrast, a Certificate of Naturalization cannot be cancelled if issued to a person who lawfully filed
an Application for Naturalization and proceeded through the entire naturalization process to the Oath
of Allegiance. In such cases, the person obtained citizenship though the entire naturalization process
and his or her citizenship status must first be revoked before the Certificate of Naturalization can be
cancelled. However , a Certificate of Naturalization illegally or fraudulently obtained by a person who
did not lawfully file an Application for Naturalization or who did not proceed through the naturalization
process may be cancelled.[5]
B. Cancellation of Certificate after Revocation of Naturalization
If a court revokes a person’ s U.S. citizenship obtained through naturalization, the court enters an order
revoking the person’ s naturalization and cancelling the person’ s Certificate of Naturalization. In such
cases, the person must surrender his or her Certificate of Naturalization. Once USCIS obtains the
court’ s order revoking citizenship and cancelling the certificate, USCIS updates its records, including
electronic records, and notifies the Department of State of the person’ s revocation of naturalization.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2610/2618