an S nonimmigrant or from someone who has applied for such status, the case must be handled
carefully .
Inquiries regarding the following should come from a law enforcement entity:[54]
An Interagency Alien Witness and Informant Record ( Form I-854A );
An Interagency Alien Witness and Informant Adjustment of Status ( Form I-854B ); and
Form I-765  filed on the basis of being a principal nonimmigrant witness or informant in S
classification.
If USCIS receives an inquiry regarding the status of a Form I-854 or a Form I-765 filed as an S
nonimmigrant, the USCIS employee must neither confirm nor deny the existence of such applications
and should inform the person that inquiries on these applications must be submitted through
appropriate law enforcement channels. 
Under no circumstances may USCIS employees ask questions about the S nonimmigrant’ s role in
cooperating with law enforcement, the type of criminal activity for which the nonimmigrant is an
informant or witness, or any specific information about the case in which the S nonimmigrant may be
involved.
K. W itness Security Program
1. Program Participants
Participation in the Witness Security Program (commonly known as the Witness Protection Program)
is not reflected in USCIS systems. Applicants in the Witness Security Program should not tell anyone,
including USCIS employees, that they are participants in the program. A separate immigration file is
created for a new identity of a participant in the program, and information from before and after the
change in identity must be in separate files. However , one file will have documentation of a legal name
change.
2. USCIS Assistance
If an applicant indicates that he or she is in the Witness Security Program, the applicant should be
referred to the U.S. Marshals Service .[55] Also, under no circumstances should USCIS employees ask
questions about why or how the applicant was placed in the Witness Security Program or any specific
information about the case which resulted in the applicant being placed in the Witness Security
Program.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See Privacy Act of 1974, Pub. L. 93-579 (PDF) , 88 Stat. 1896 (December 31, 1974) (codified at 5
U.S.C. 552a ).8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 193/2618