The quality and availability of educational opportunities abroad;
Inferior quality of medical services and facilities; and
Ability to pursue a chosen employment abroad.
While extreme hardship must involve more than the common consequences of denying admission, the
extreme hardship standard is not as high as the significantly more burdensome “exceptional and
extremely unusual” hardship standard that that applies to other forms of immigration adjudications,
such as cancellation of removal.[4]
C. Factors Must Be Considered Cumulatively
The of ficer must consider all factors and consequences in their totality and cumulatively when
assessing whether a qualifying relative will experience extreme hardship either in the United States or
abroad. In some cases, common consequences that on their own do not constitute extreme hardship
may result in extreme hardship when assessed cumulatively with other factors.[5]
For example, if a qualifying relative has a medical condition that alone does not rise to the level of
extreme hardship, the combination of that hardship and the common consequences of inferior medical
services, economic detriment, or readjusting to life in another country may cumulatively cause extreme
emotional or financial hardship for the qualifying relative when considering the totality of the
circumstances.
Ordinarily , for example, the fact that medical services are less comprehensive in another country is a
common consequence of denying admission; but the inferior quality of medical services, considered
along with the individual’ s specific medical conditions, may create suf ficient dif ficulties as to rise to the
level of extreme hardship in combination with all the other consequences.
The of ficer must weigh all factors individually and cumulatively , as follows:
First, the of ficer must consider whether any factor set forth individually rises to the level of
extreme hardship under the totality of the circumstances.
 Second, if any factor alone does not rise to the level of extreme hardship, the of ficer must
consider all factors together to determine whether they cumulatively rise to the level of extreme
hardship. This includes hardships to multiple qualifying relatives.
When considering the factors, whether individually or cumulatively , all factors, including negative
factors, must be evaluated in the totality of the circumstances.
D. Examples of Factors that May Support a Finding of Extreme Hardship
The chart below lists factors that an applicant might present and that would be relevant to determining
whether an applicant has demonstrated extreme hardship to a qualifying relative. This list is not
exhaustive; circumstances that are not on this list may also be relevant to finding extreme hardship.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2124/2618