that property , for example. A person who owns property but never lived in the property would not be
able to establish residence based on owning that property .
Physical Presence in U.S. T erritorial W aters
A parent’ s physical presence in U.S. territorial waters[41] is determined based on the ports of
departure and arrival and the nature of the voyage.[42] Officers determine the location of the ports of
departure and arrival first, for the purpose of counting physical presence at a U.S. port. Of ficers then
add any additional days for the portion of the voyage where there is evidence that the ship was in U.S.
territorial waters, which includes U.S. coastal travel.
Officers use the following formula to calculate total physical presence in territorial waters:
Physical presence at a U.S. Port + physical presence during voyage =
Physical presence in territorial waters 
The following tables show how USCIS calculates physical presence at a U.S. port and during a
voyage.
Ports of Departure and
ArrivalPhysical Presence at a U.S. Port
From United States to United
States1 day if the duration of the voyage is 1 day; 2 days for voyages of
more than 2 days
From United States to Foreign 1 day
From Foreign to United States 1 day
From Foreign to Foreign 0 days
Type of V oyage Physical Presence During V oyage
Coastal (within U.S. territorial waters on a
single coast)Number of days of voyage (not including days
physically present at a U.S. port, as determined above)
Coastwise (from a U.S. port to a U.S. port,
but through foreign or international waters)0 days (unless there is evidence that the ship was in
U.S. territorial waters for additional days beyond days
physically present at a U.S. port)
Foreign or International (to or from a U.S.
port, but operated in foreign or
international waters)0 days (unless there is evidence that the ship was in
U.S. territorial waters for additional days beyond days
physically present at a U.S. port)
Intercoastal (between a U.S. port on the
Atlantic Ocean and a U.S. port on the
Pacific Ocean)0 days (unless there is evidence that the ship was in
U.S. territorial waters for additional days beyond days
physically present at a U.S. port)8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2465/2618