If F-1 or M-1 students are admitted for a fixed period of admission (not for duration of status) to attend
a public high school and then apply to transfer schools or to attend a U.S. post-secondary school, they
need to file an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status ( Form I-539 ) to request an
extension of stay to remain in the United States beyond their fixed period of admission.
1. F-1 Students
F-1 students are limited to a cumulative period of 12 months to attend a public high school.[2] F-1 high
school students are typically admitted for a specific period of time rather than duration of status.[3]
F-1 students must provide proof that they have reimbursed the local educational agency that
administers the public high school for the full, unsubsidized per capita cost of providing education at
the school for the period of the student’ s attendance.
2. M-1 Students
M-1 students are not subject to the same 12-month time limit on public high school attendance.
However , M-1 students are admitted for a fixed time period that includes the period necessary to
complete the course of study indicated on the Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status
(Form I-20 ), plus practical training following completion of the course of study , plus an additional 30
days to depart the United States, but not to exceed a total period of 1 year .[4]
B. Online and Distance Education Courses
1. F-1 Students
An F-1 student enrolled in classes for credit or classroom hours may only count one class or three
credits (or the equivalent) per academic session (or the equivalent) toward the full course of study
requirement if the class is:
Taken online; or
Through distance education not requiring physical attendance for any purpose integral to
completion of the class.[5]
If the F-1 student’ s course of study is in a language study program, no online or distance education
classes count toward a student’ s full course of study program.[6] If the F-1 student needs only one
course to finish the program of study , it cannot be taken through online or distance education. Courses
must have a physical presence requirement.[7]
2. M-1 Students
No online or distance education classes are counted toward an M-1 student’ s full course of study
requirement if such classes do not require the student’ s physical attendance for any purpose integral8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 383/2618