Vaccinations that are administered as a series in intervals, but there is insuf ficient time to
complete the entire vaccination series at the time of the medical examination (“insuf ficient time
interval”);[5] or
The influenza vaccine if it is not the flu season, or if the vaccine for the specific flu strain missing
is no longer available (“not flu season”).
If receiving the vaccine is not medically appropriate, the civil surgeon should indicate this medical
finding on the Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ) in the
appropriate boxes. USCIS will then waive that vaccine(s).[6] A separate waiver application is not
required for an of ficer to grant a waiver of the vaccination requirement as “not medically appropriate.”
The of ficer should generally accept a finding by the civil surgeon that a vaccine is not medically
appropriate unless that finding is clearly wrong. For example, if a vaccine was age appropriate at the
time of the medical exam based on the vaccination chart,[7] but the civil surgeon marked that the
vaccine is not medically appropriate because it is not age appropriate, then it is clear that the civil
surgeon’ s mark is incorrect. The same is true for a finding that a vaccine is not medically appropriate
because it is not flu season; the of ficer should be able to clearly see whether the finding is correct
based on the date of the medical examination.
An of ficer, however , should usually defer to a civil surgeon’ s finding that a vaccine is not medically
appropriate because of a contraindication. This is because such a finding involves medical judgment.
As indicated in the previous section, generally all age appropriate vaccine rows of the vaccination
assessment must have at least one entry before the assessment can be considered to have been
properly completed. However , if the of ficer can see from the record that the age appropriate vaccine
was not required because, for instance, “it is not the flu season” but the civil surgeon failed to mark
this on the vaccination assessment, then the of ficer may grant a blanket waiver despite the omission.
In such cases, the of ficer should annotate in the “For USCIS Use Only” Remarks box in the
vaccination record that a blanket waiver was granted.
2. Pregnancy or an Immuno-Compromised Condition[8]
Some vaccines are, in general, not medically appropriate during pregnancy . These vaccines will likely
be marked as contraindicated on Form I-693  if the applicant was pregnant at the time of the medical
examination.[9]
The civil surgeon may annotate in the remarks section that the applicant did not receive one or more
vaccines because of a contraindication that is based on pregnancy or a condition other than
pregnancy . The reason for the contraindication may be annotated by the civil surgeon on the Form I-
693; however , if it is omitted, the of ficer does not need to issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) solely
for that omission as long as the contraindication is marked in the vaccine chart.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1920/2618