at the discretion of USCIS. USCIS may request to review guest speaker remarks in advance of
the ceremony for content and length. Inappropriate remarks, including political (partisan or
otherwise), commercial, or religious statements, are not permitted.[59]
Determining which naturalization candidates will participate in the ceremony – Organizations
may not request that specific lawful permanent residents (LPRs) be naturalized at any ceremony
(for example, only LPRs from a particular country). USCIS does not consider such requests,
which may create a conflict of interest or the appearance of preferential treatment to specific
LPRs.
Ensuring that voter registration applications are of fered to new citizens at the end of the
ceremony .[60]
Selecting and approving organizations requesting to distribute voter registration applications,
and the methods by which such ef forts are to be conducted.
Preserving the importance, dignity , and significance of naturalization ceremonies.
USCIS may brief all ceremony participants on expected behavior .
2. External Organizations
The external organization is responsible for:
Following all USCIS policies and procedures, including guidance from field leadership.
Seeking approval from USCIS prior to distributing any materials at the ceremony . If the external
organization wishes to distribute American flags to ceremony guests, those flags should be
made in the United States. USCIS provides flags for all naturalization candidates.
Coordinating with USCIS on media coverage of the naturalization ceremony .
Footnotes
[^ 1] This guidance applies only to administrative naturalization ceremonies involving an Application for
Naturalization ( Form N-400 ) where a USCIS-designated of ficial or an immigration judge administers
the Oath of Allegiance. The guidance does not apply to administrative ceremonies involving children
obtaining evidence of citizenship -- Application for Citizenship ( Form N-600 ) or Application for
Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322 ( Form N-600K ) – or judicial naturalization
ceremonies where a federal, state, or local court administers the Oath of Allegiance.
[^ 2] To the extent practicable, U.S. Citizenship W elcome Packet (Form M-771) will also be distributed
to candidates participating in naturalization ceremonies overseas, subject to circumstances such as
the location of the ceremony and the capacity of the military member to carry the materials.
[^ 3] See Section B, Ceremony Check-in Process [ 12 USCIS-PM J.5(B) ], and Section C, Ceremony
Program [ 12 USCIS-PM J.5(C) ].8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2593/2618