ownership and control of both legal entities can be established.[10] For instance, a person may be the
sole proprietor of an entity abroad and also of one in the United States, and may , depending on the
facts presented, transfer an otherwise eligible employee to the United States entity .
Generally , no special documents are executed when a sole proprietorship is created and commences
doing business. In the United States, a sole proprietorship is not required to execute or file any
documents of creation and may use the owner ’s own social security number as its Employer ’s
Identification Number .
The most common document provided as evidence of the ownership and control of a sole
proprietorship is the owner ’s individual federal tax return. In addition, the petitioner may submit
contracts, such as leases, employment contracts, or sales agreements that the owner executed on
behalf of the sole proprietorship.
In cases where the business is not a separate legal entity from the owner , the petitioner must also
provide other evidence that identifies the owner of the business. This evidence may include, but is not
limited to, a license to do business, record of registration as an employer with the IRS, business tax
returns, or other evidence that identifies the owner of the business.
There is a dif ference between a sole proprietorship and a self-incorporated petitioner (such as a
corporation or a limited liability company with a single owner). Although a self-incorporated or self-
organized petitioner may only have one owner , the corporation or the single member limited liability
company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its owners, stockholders or members and
therefore may petition for that owner .[11]
B. Joint V enture
A joint venture is a business relationship wherein two or more parties agree to share funds, resources,
and skills to undertake a particular business project. There are two general types of joint venture
business enterprises: equity joint ventures and non-equity joint ventures.
An equity joint venture is created under corporate law and exists when two or more companies create
a separate entity and contribute capital to that entity in furtherance of the joint venture. A qualifying L-1
relationship can exist between a contributing company and the resulting venture if the contributing
company owns at least 50 percent of the venture and exercises control over the venture.
A non-equity joint venture, on the other hand, is typically a contractual arrangement in which no
separate entity is formed. In a non-equity joint venture, cooperative agreements are entered into
between the contributing companies to provide noncapital resources (such as manufacturing
processes, patents, trademarks, managerial know-how , or other essential services). A non-equity joint
venture does not establish a qualifying L-1 relationship, because no separate entity is formed.
Therefore, the requisite common ownership and control will not be present in a non-equity joint8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 488/2618