The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) has held that a state court action to “expunge, dismiss,
cancel, vacate, discharge, or otherwise remove a guilty plea or other record of guilt or conviction by
operation of a state rehabilitative statute” has no ef fect on removing the underlying conviction for
immigration purposes.[26]
The of ficer may require the applicant to submit evidence of a conviction regardless of whether the
record of the conviction has been expunged. It remains the applicant’ s responsibility to obtain his or
her records regardless of whether they have been expunged or sealed by the court. USCIS may file a
motion with the court to obtain a copy of the record in states where the applicant is unable to obtain
the record.
9. Change in Sentence
“Term of imprisonment or a sentence”[27] generally refers to a person’ s original criminal sentence,
without regard to post-sentencing alterations.[28] Therefore, state-court orders that modify , clarify , or
otherwise alter a criminal person’ s original sentence will only be relevant for immigration purposes if
they are based on a procedural or substantive defect in the underlying criminal proceeding.[29]
D. Effect of Probation
An of ficer may not approve a naturalization application while the applicant is on probation, parole, or
under a suspended sentence.[30] However , an applicant who has satisfactorily completed probation,
parole, or a suspended sentence during the relevant statutory period is not automatically precluded
from establishing GMC. The fact that an applicant was on probation, parole, or under a suspended
sentence during the statutory period, however , may af fect the overall GMC determination.
E. Admission of Certain Criminal Acts
An applicant may be unable to establish GMC if he or she admits committing certain of fenses even if
the applicant has never been formally charged, indicted, arrested or convicted.[31] This applies to
offenses involving “moral turpitude” or any violation of, or a conspiracy or attempt to violate, any law or
regulation relating to a controlled substance.[32] When determining whether an applicant committed a
particular of fense, the of ficer must review the relevant statute in the jurisdiction where it is alleged to
have been committed. 
The of ficer must provide the applicant with a full explanation of the purpose of the questioning
stemming from the applicant’ s declaration that he or she committed an of fense. In order for the
applicant’ s declaration to be considered an “admission,” it must meet the long held requirements for a
valid “admission” of an of fense:[33]
The of ficer must provide the applicant the text of the specific law from the jurisdiction where the
offense was committed;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2393/2618