What type of relief the court is providing, such as child welfare services or custodial placement;
With whom the child is placed, if the court has appointed a specific custodian or guardian, (for
example, the name of the person, or entity , or agency) and the factual basis for this finding;
Which of the specific grounds (abuse, neglect, abandonment, or similar basis under state law)
apply to which of the parent(s) and the factual basis for the court’ s determinations on non-
viability of parental reunification; and
The factual basis for the determination that it is not in the petitioner ’s best interest to return to the
petitioner ’s or the petitioner ’s parents’  country of nationality or last habitual residence (for
example, addressing family reunification with family that remains in the child’ s country of
nationality or last habitual residence).
B. Limitations on Additional Evidence
USCIS is mindful that there are often confidentiality rules that govern disclosure of records from
juvenile-related proceedings. For this reason, of ficers generally do not request information or
documents from sources other than the SIJ petitioner or his or her legal representative.[17]
Children often do not share personal accounts of their family life with an unknown adult until they have
had the opportunity to form a trusting relationship with that adult. Therefore, of ficers should exercise
careful judgment when considering statements made by children at the time of initial apprehension by
immigration or law enforcement of ficers to question the determinations made by the juvenile court.
Additionally , the juvenile court may make child welfare placement, custody , and best interest decisions
that dif fer from the child’ s stated intentions at the time of apprehension. However , if there is significant
contradictory information in the file that the juvenile court was likely not aware of or that may impact
whether a reasonable factual basis exists for the court’ s determinations, of ficers may request
additional evidence from the petitioner or his or her legal representative. 
However , officers may not require or request an SIJ petitioner to contact the person or family members
of the person who allegedly abused, neglected, or abandoned the SIJ petitioner .[18]
Footnotes
[^ 1] See Instructions for Form I-360 . There is no fee to file Form I-360  to seek SIJ classification.
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 204.1 1(d)(2) .
[^ 3] For information on SIJ-based adjustment of status, see V olume 7, Adjustment of Status, Part F ,
Special Immigrant-Based Adjustment, Chapter 7, Special Immigrant Juveniles [ 7 USCIS-PM F .7].8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1422/2618