Information that is owned by USCIS and designated as LES, SBU, or FOUO may sometimes contain
derogatory information that USCIS intends to rely on in an adverse determination. USCIS generally
does not disclose information that is labeled as LES, SBU, or FOUO without following specific
protocols, which may include obtaining permission from the individuals involved in the investigation,
redesignating the relevant information by the appropriate designation authorities, withholding sensitive
details that could reveal investigative methods or sensitive information or sources (including
government names in investigative reports), or following Freedom of Information Act procedures.[93]
Information Related to an Ongoing or Past Investigation
Derogatory information is sometimes found in records that pertain to an investigation including
information that could jeopardize investigative sources or methods, or ongoing criminal, civil, or
administrative investigations.
Certain derogatory information that is part of a past investigation may generally be disclosed in a
detailed description. If unclear whether the investigation is closed, of ficers should contact the lead
investigator to confirm the status of the investigation. Of ficers may be required to obtain permission
from the investigating source or from a third party involved in the past investigation to disclose certain
details. However , USCIS must follow applicable laws, rules and data sharing agreements and of ficers
are expected to interpret information from various sources and know what information must be
disclosed or confronted with the benefit requestor and what details are necessary to provide a legally
sufficient decision, including whether details require permission from another agency .
Officers must omit any non-disclosable information from the detailed description (NOID) or verbally
during an interview . For example, USCIS may disclose the derogatory information in a detailed
description without providing the name of the person who provided the information if the source has
not given USCIS permission to reveal his or her identity . For example, USCIS does not need to
provide the names or identities of neighbors that provided adverse information to USCIS during a site
visit so long as USCIS provides suf ficient detail of derogatory information unknown to the benefit
requestor .[94]
Officers should discuss an ongoing investigation with the investigator before disclosing parts of the
investigation or derogatory information as premature disclosures could impact the investigation.
Generally , investigative reports specify the origin of derogatory information and special limitations on
disclosure. However , in the absence of such designations, of ficers are expected to utilize all resources
available to them and apply the information they have obtained from both investigations and
government resources to adjudicate a benefit request appropriately . Each USCIS employee is
responsible for safeguarding sensitive information.
Third-Party Information8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 285/2618