those involving national security or foreign policy considerations, or cases in which an alien clearly
demonstrates that the denial of the application for adjustment of status or an immigrant visa or
admission as an immigrant would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship. Moreover ,
depending on the gravity of the alien’ s underlying criminal of fense, a showing of extraordinary
circumstances might still be insuf ficient to warrant a favorable exercise of discretion under section
212(h)(2)  of the Act.”
[^ 6] See 8 CFR 212.7(c)(5) . If an applicant erroneously submits the foreign residence requirement
waiver application requesting a waiver based on an exceptional hardship claim but submits
documentation to establish persecution, or vice versa, of ficers should issue a request for evidence
asking that the applicant either correct the basis for the waiver request indicated on the waiver
application or submit documentation supporting the basis indicated.
[^ 7] Applicants should indicate the reason or reasons they are subject to the foreign residence
requirement on the waiver application. Applicants may be subject to the requirement for multiple
reasons. For example, an applicant whose exchange visitor program was financed by the government
of the applicant’ s country may also have participated in graduate medical education or training. When
applicable, USCIS evaluates whether multiple grounds apply .
[^ 8] See 8 CFR 212.7(c)(6) . The foreign residence requirement waiver application contains fields to
collect information on the qualifying relative (U.S. citizen or LPR spouse or child). If the application is
based on exceptional hardship to the applicant's spouse or child, then the applicant must document
the name, date, and place of birth, and the U.S. citizenship or LPR status of the qualifying relative.
See information about specific documentation to establish family relationships and U.S. citizenship
and LPR status in the instructions to Application for W aiver of the Foreign Residence Requirement
(under Section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as Amended) ( Form I-612 ).
[^ 9] See 8 CFR 212.7(c)(7) .
[^ 10]  See Keh T ong Chen v . Attorney General of the United States , 546 F . Supp. 1060 (D.D.C. 1982)
(“Courts have ef fectuated Congressional intent by declining to find exceptional hardship unless the
degree of hardship expected was greater than the anxiety , loneliness, and altered financial
circumstances ordinarily anticipated from a two-year sojourn abroad.”), and Matter of V icedo (PDF) ,
13 I&N Dec. 33 (Dist. Dir . 1968). Hardship was found for purposes of an INA 212(e)  waiver where
evidence showed that the two U.S. citizen children would be deprived of the love and care of their
parents, and the father could not pay transportation to the Philippines or maintain the family there.
[^ 11] See Matter of Gupta (PDF) , 13 I&N Dec. 477 (Dep. Assoc. Comm. 1970). Exceptional hardship
was found where a prior visit of the U.S. citizen child to India resulted in medical disorders due to
climatic conditions and the unavailability of foods to which the child was accustomed.
[^ 12]  See Matter of Ambe (PDF) , 13 I&N Dec. 3 (Dist. Dir . 1968). Exceptional hardship was found
where the U.S. citizen child was allergic to the smallpox vaccine, and smallpox was endemic to the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 359/2618