In addition, of ficers may consider evidence of the endeavor ’s potential significant economic impact,
but “merit may be established without immediate or quantifiable economic impact” and “endeavors
related to research, pure science, and the furtherance of human knowledge may qualify , whether or
not the potential accomplishments in those fields are likely to translate into economic benefits for the
United States.”[70]
Officers must also examine the national importance of the specific endeavor proposed by considering
its potential prospective impact. Of ficers should focus on the nature of the proposed endeavor , rather
than only the geographic breadth of the endeavor .[71]
For example, the endeavor “may have national importance because it has national or even global
implications within a particular field, such as certain improved manufacturing processes or medical
advances.” Economically , it may have “significant potential to employ U.S. workers,” that is, at a level
that is significant with respect to the population and economic circumstances of the relevant region, or
it may of fer “other substantial positive economic ef fects, particularly in an economically depressed
area.”[72] Therefore, petitioners should submit a detailed description explaining the proposed
endeavor and supporting documentary evidence to establish that the endeavor is of national
importance.
In determining national importance, the of ficer’s analysis focuses on what the person will be doing
rather than the specific job title or occupational classification. The analysis considers whether the
petition contains substance that explains and substantiates how working in the proposed endeavor
meets the national importance standard.
For example, a proposed endeavor to engage in classroom teaching, without broader implications for
a field or region, generally does not rise to the level of having national importance for the purpose of
establishing eligibility for a national interest waiver . Citing the general importance of the profession of
classroom teaching would not alone be suf ficient to demonstrate national importance in the context of
a national interest waiver request. Proposing to work in an occupation with a national shortage or
serve in a consulting capacity for others seeking to work in an occupation with a national shortage
alone, is also insuf ficient.
As another example, assertions regarding the general importance of business owners or
entrepreneurs for job creation or other economic benefits would not alone be suf ficient to demonstrate
national importance in the context of a national interest waiver request. A petition involving a startup
company should demonstrate in detail how this specific endeavor meets the national interest
requirement.[73]
Benefits to a specific employer alone, even an employer with a national footprint, are not suf ficiently
relevant to the question of whether a person’ s endeavor has national importance. At issue is whether
the petitioner can demonstrate that the person’ s own individual endeavor stands to have broader
implications, such as for a field, a region, or the public at large.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1205/2618