member who is authorized to accompany the service member by of ficial orders and is residing abroad
with the service member .[12]
Under certain conditions, a spouse or child of a service member may count any period of time that he
or she is residing (or has resided) abroad with the service member as residence and physical
presence in the United States. This legislation also prescribes that such a spouse or child may be
eligible to have any or all of their naturalization proceedings conducted abroad. Before this legislation,
the law only permitted eligible service members to participate in naturalization proceedings abroad.
INA 284(b)  limits the circumstances under which the lawful permanent resident (LPR) spouse or
child is considered to be seeking admission to the United States. This means that the spouse or
child will not be deemed to have abandoned or relinquished his or her LPR status while residing
abroad with the service member . The provision ensures reentry into the United States by LPR
spouses and children whose presence abroad might otherwise be deemed as abandonment of
LPR status. 
INA 319(e)  allows certain LPR spouses to count any qualifying time abroad as continuous
residence and physical presence in the United States and permits eligible spouses to naturalize
overseas.
INA 322(d)  allows the U.S. citizen parent of a child filing for naturalization to count time abroad
as physical presence and allows the child to naturalize overseas.
4. Fingerprint Requirement (Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act)
On June 26, 2008, Congress mandated that USCIS use enlistment fingerprints or previously submitted
USCIS fingerprints to satisfy the naturalization background check requirements unless a more ef ficient
method is available.[13]
5. Expedited Application Processing (Military Personnel Citizenship Processing Act)
On October 9, 2008, Congress amended existing statutes to mandate USCIS to process and
adjudicate naturalization applications filed under certain military-related provisions within six months of
the receipt date or provide the applicant with an explanation for why his or her application is still
pending and an estimated adjudication completion date.[14]
C. Legal Authorities
INA 319; 8 CFR 319  – Spouses of U.S. Citizens
INA 322; 8 CFR 322  – Children born outside of the United States
INA 328; 8 CFR 328  – Naturalization through peacetime military service for one year
INA 329; 8 CFR 329  – Naturalization through military Service during hostilities
INA 329A ; 8 CFR 392  – Posthumous citizenship
8 U.S.C. 1443a  – Overseas naturalization for service members and their qualifying spouses and
children8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2532/2618