Vaccination Requirement [ 9 USCIS-PM D.3 ] for more information on the requirements for vaccination
waivers based on religious beliefs or moral objections. 
Chapter 10 - Other Medical Conditions
The civil surgeon should annotate any other medical condition the applicant may have, as directed by
the Technical Instructions. A condition annotated in this section does not render the applicant
inadmissible on health-related grounds of inadmissibility . However , it may impact other inadmissibility
determinations. 
Chapter 1 1 - Inadmissibility Determination
A. Civil Surgeon or Panel Physician Documentation
If a “Class A condition” is noted on the medical form, it is conclusive evidence that the applicant is
inadmissible. The Class A annotation may also indicate that an applicant could be inadmissible on
other grounds of inadmissibility . For example, “harmful behavior” associated with a physical or mental
disorder , or illegal drug use, may have resulted in criminal convictions that make an applicant
inadmissible under INA 212(a)(2) . However , a criminal conviction should be supported by conviction
records or similar evidence, and not just the medical examination report.[1]
If a civil surgeon or panel physician only annotates a “Class B condition” (per U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services regulations), the applicant is never inadmissible on health-related
grounds. The of ficer should remember that if the civil surgeon or panel physician indicates on the
Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ) that a former Class
A condition is now a Class B condition, the applicant is no longer inadmissible. However , a Class B
condition may indicate that the applicant could be inadmissible on other grounds because of the
condition, such as public charge.[2]
The of ficer may encounter medical documentation that is not fully completed. In this case, the of ficer
should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE). If the physician fails to properly complete the form in
response to the RFE, the applicant has not established that he or she is clearly admissible to the
United States.[3]
B. Applicant’ s Declaration
If the applicant indicates that he or she may be inadmissible based on a medical reason, the of ficer
must order a medical examination of the applicant. Based on the results of that medical exam, the
officer should ascertain whether the applicant actually has a Class A, Class B, or no condition at all8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1929/2618