C. Considerations for Aliens Outside the United States
USCIS may assist certain aliens requesting urgent travel to the United States or who require
documentation to return from temporary travel outside the United States.
1. Humanitarian or Significant Public Benefit Parole
Aliens who are outside of the United States may request parole into the United States based on urgent
humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit.[55] Parole is not intended to be used solely to avoid
normal visa processing procedures and timelines, to bypass inadmissibility waiver processing, or to
replace established refugee processing channels.
An applicant may demonstrate urgency by establishing a reason to be in the United States that calls
for immediate or other time-sensitive action, including (but not limited to) critical medical treatment, or
the need to visit, assist or support a family member who is at an end-of-life stage of an illness or
disease. The factors considered in determining urgent humanitarian reasons depend on the type of
parole request.[56]
Parole based on significant public benefit includes, but is not limited to, law enforcement and national
security reasons or foreign or domestic policy considerations.
2. Returning from T emporary T ravel Outside the United States
Lawful Permanent Residents (LPRs), including conditional residents, returning from temporary travel
outside the United States of less than 1 year and whose Permanent Resident Card has been lost,
stolen, or destroyed may apply for a travel document (carrier documentation) that allows them to
board an airline or other transportation carrier without the airline or transportation carrier being
penalized. LPRs returning from temporary travel outside the United States of less than 2 years and
whose reentry permits have been lost, stolen, or destroyed may do so as well.
Aliens outside the United States whose advance parole document, TPS travel document, or
Employment Authorization Document with travel endorsement has not expired but has been lost,
stolen, damaged, or destroyed while the alien was abroad may also request carrier documentation
from USCIS.
LPRs and other aliens who wish to request carrier documentation may do so by filing an Application
for Carrier Documentation ( Form I-131A ).
Footnotes 
[^ 1] Domestically , USCIS may apply flexibilities, as appropriate, to individuals af fected by natural
catastrophes who live in a location that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 327/2618