[^ 9] See INA 204(c) . The fraudulent marriage prohibition that is articulated in INA 204(c)  and 8 CFR
204.2(a)(1)(ii)  does not distinguish between forms, but merely states “a petition for immigrant visa
classification.” See Matter of Christo’ s, Inc. (PDF) , 26 I&N Dec. 537 (AAO 2015).
Part F - Employment-Based Classifications
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) and implementing regulations provide for several
employment-based immigrant visa classifications. Alien beneficiaries approved in these classifications
are eligible to apply for lawful admission as a permanent resident or adjustment of status to permanent
residence.
B. Background
In general, for an Immigrant Petition for Alien W orkers ( Form I-140 ), a petitioner must demonstrate to
USCIS that the beneficiary is qualified for the immigrant classification sought.[1] If the petition is based
on an underlying approved permanent labor certification application, then the petition must be filed
during the validity period of the permanent labor certification established by the U.S. Department of
Labor (DOL).
The petitioner must demonstrate that the beneficiary is qualified for the position certified by DOL.
However , as discussed in more detail later in this part, there are several immigrant classifications that
do not require the petitioner to first obtain a permanent labor certification. In addition, in certain
classifications, the beneficiary is able to self-petition for the classification sought.
General information relating to employment-based immigrant petitions is provided in Part E.[2] This
Part F provides a more detailed discussion of the specific immigrant classifications.
Visa Classifications
The following table lists the employment-based immigrant visa classifications, the corresponding
codes of admission, and where to find additional guidance about the classifications.
Employment-Based V isa Classifications
Employment-Based
ImmigrantCode of
AdmissionFor More Information8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1145/2618