the applicant of an appointment by sending the applicant a Notice of Action (Form I-797C) stating the
date, time, and location of the appointment.
For purposes of a request to replace a PRC, USCIS generally collects the following biometrics from
the applicant: photograph, signature, and fingerprints.[20]
When an applicant appears at an ASC[21] to provide biometrics, the ASC may take actions that
include, but are not limited to, the following:
Verifying applicant identity;
Verifying biographic changes, if applicable;[22] and
Capturing biometrics.
2. Rescheduling Requests and Failure to Appear
If an applicant fails to appear for the scheduled biometrics appointment, his or her Form I-90 is
considered abandoned and may be denied, unless USCIS receives a properly filed change of address
or rescheduling request before the scheduled appointment.
Biometrics must be completed within 90 days of the biometrics appointment described in the initial
Form I-797C. The application may be denied for abandonment if biometrics are not completed within
this timeframe. If an applicant is unable to appear for the initial scheduled date, the applicant may
request to reschedule the appointment along with a suf ficient explanation for the applicant’ s inability to
appear on that date. The applicant should submit the rescheduling request before the scheduled
appointment, otherwise USCIS may deny the application for failure to appear at a scheduled
biometrics appointment. The applicant should follow the instructions on the Form I-797C to request
rescheduling.
F. Temporary Evidence of Permanent Resident Status
LPRs are entitled to evidence of status.[23] In some cases, LPRs may require temporary evidence of
LPR status. For example, a new LPR may require temporary evidence of status while waiting to
receive his or her initial PRC or a Form I-90 applicant may require temporary evidence of status while
waiting to receive his or her replacement PRC.[24] USCIS may also provide temporary evidence of
status to LPRs in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings.[25]
1. I-90 Receipt Notice Includes Extension of Permanent Resident Card V alidity
USCIS sends a receipt notice (Notice of Action ( Form I-797 )) to applicants who properly file a Form I-
90 to replace their expiring PRC. The notice serves as proof of USCIS’  receipt of the applicant’ s Form
I-90. The notice also serves as evidence of USCIS’  extension of the validity of the applicant’ s PRC for
the time period specified in the notice (when the LPR presents the notice together with the PRC).[26]
In these cases, the notice combined with the expiring or expired PRC serve as evidence of LPR status8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2244/2618