However , USCIS may approve the joint petition if all other eligibility requirements are met or schedule
an interview to determine whether the CPR may file a Form I-751 divorce waiver . USCIS may not deny
a joint petition solely because the spouses are separated or have initiated divorce or annulment
proceedings.
Initially Filed W aiver Request
If USCIS receives a Form I-751 filed by a CPR as a waiver request based on termination of marriage
and the spouses are still married but legally separated or in pending divorce or annulment
proceedings, USCIS issues an RFE. In many cases, the divorce takes place during the response
period to the RFE, which gives the CPR the opportunity to establish eligibility for the waiver by
submitting a copy of the final divorce decree or annulment.
If the CPR establishes eligibility for the waiver , then USCIS adjudicates the Form I-751 in accordance
with established procedure.
If the CPR does not respond to the RFE or the CPR’ s response does not establish eligibility for the
waiver , USCIS denies the Form I-751. In the denial notice, USCIS informs the CPR that the CPR is
ineligible for a waiver of the joint filing requirement because the divorce or annulment is not final.
C. Battery or Extreme Cruelty
1. Battery or Extreme Cruelty W aiver
Background
The original IMF A did not contain a separate waiver provision for victims of battery or extreme cruelty .
[28] The “battery or extreme cruelty waiver” was created with the passage of the Immigration Act of
1990, which amended the INA  at section 216(c)(4).[29]
CPRs who are eligible for the battery or extreme cruelty waiver were then included in the INA  definition
of a “V AWA self-petitioner” when the term was created by section 81 1 of the V iolence Against W omen
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005.[30] VAWA self-petitioners are af forded certain
protections and special considerations under the INA  and other statutory provisions as victims of
abuse.
Eligibility
CPR spouses who entered into a qualifying marriage in good faith and were battered or subjected to
extreme cruelty by their petitioning spouse may request a waiver of the joint filing requirement.[31]
Additionally , if the CPR spouse is a parent of a child battered or subjected to extreme cruelty by the
petitioning spouse, the CPR spouse may also apply for the waiver regardless of the child’ s citizenship
or immigration status.[32]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1388/2618