D. Spelling of Names and Naming Convention Issues
From time to time, aliens may complete an adjustment application by filling out their name in some
variation of what was listed on the refugee application or relative petition. Although some aliens may
be permitted on other local or federal government-issued documents to anglicize their name or to use
a slightly dif ferent spelling, aliens are not permitted to change the spelling of their names from what
was listed on their refugee application or relative petition or to use an anglicized version at time of
adjustment of status. This is prohibited in order to preserve the continuity and integrity of immigration
records on the alien.
Occasionally , the refugee application or relative petition may contain an error in the spelling or the
order of an alien's name. If, based on a review of underlying documents in the refugee packet, the
officer clearly recognizes such an error , he or she may correct the error by amending the name of the
alien on the adjustment application accordingly . If the alien is approved for permanent resident status,
the name must also be amended in the appropriate electronic systems.
E. Detained Refugees
In certain circumstances, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) may encounter an alien
who has failed to timely file for adjustment of status under INA 209(a) . This most often occurs when
the alien has been apprehended by other law enforcement agencies for suspected criminal activity . If
ICE determines that the alien should be placed in removal proceedings, the local Enforcement and
Removal Operations (ERO) field of fice promptly reaches out to its corresponding USCIS Field Of fice
Director or designated point-of-contact to begin the adjustment of status process.
The ERO field of fice informs the alien of the requirement by law to file for adjustment of status to
determine admissibility and provides the alien with an adjustment of status application and waiver
application (if required)[7] to fill out prior to the refugee’ s release from custody . If the alien refuses, ICE
personnel fills out Part 1 of the adjustment application and signs as completed by ICE, and sends the
original application to the USCIS Field Of fice Director or designee for expedited processing and
adjudication.
F. Decision
1. Approval
If the adjustment application is properly filed, the alien meets all eligibility requirements, and the alien
satisfies admissibility and waiver requirements, then the of ficer must approve the application. Unlike
most applications for adjustment of status, refugee-based adjustments are not discretionary , and the
application may only be denied if the alien is found to be ineligible, inadmissible, or if the application
was improperly filed.
Effective Date of Residence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1806/2618