The petitioner has the burden to show that the law of the jurisdiction where the adoption order was
issued actually creates a valid adoption for immigration purposes.[11] The petitioner must establish
that the customary adoption complies with the requirements of the relevant customary law and meets
the definition of adoption for immigration purposes.[12]
4. Simple Adoption
Some countries have a type of adoption commonly called simple adoption, in addition to another type
that may be called full, plenary , or perfect adoption. Whether simple adoption is valid for immigration
purposes depends on the law of the jurisdiction where the adoption order was issued.[13]
Even if a simple adoption might be more easily terminated than a full adoption, the petitioner may still
establish that a permanent relationship was created by the simple adoption. A simple adoption may be
valid for immigration purposes if it meets the definition of an adoption for immigration purposes and
the parent-child relationship cannot be terminated for other than serious or grave reasons. If a simple
adoption creates a permanent legal parent-child relationship, it might be valid for immigration
purposes.[14]
5. Contact with Birth or Prior Parents After the Adoption
The mere fact that contact between the adoptee and the birth or prior parents (as in open adoptions) is
ongoing does not mean that the legal parent-child relationship with the prior legal parent(s) was not
terminated. As long as the adoptive parents, rather than the prior parents, exercise full parental
authority over the child as a result of the adoption, the adoption order may be valid to form the basis of
granting an immigration benefit under U.S. immigration law (if otherwise eligible).
6. Adoptive Stepparents
In some jurisdictions, the law allows a stepparent to adopt the child(ren) of the stepparent’ s spouse if
the legal parent-child relationship with the other legal or birth parent has been terminated by death or
legal action. Such termination may meet the requirement that the legal parent-child relationship
between the child and the prior legal parent(s) was terminated. The continuing legal parent-child
relationship between the child and the adopting stepparent’ s spouse does not preclude recognition of
the adoption.
7. Evidence About the Applicable Adoption Law
The law of the jurisdiction where the adoption order was issued is a question of fact that the petitioner
must prove with evidence.[15] If the evidence of record does not clearly show that an adoption creates
a permanent legal parent-child relationship, the of ficer issues a request for evidence (RFE) or notice of
intent to deny (NOID) asking for a copy of the relevant laws, along with properly certified English
translations.[16] In this way , the of ficer provides the petitioner with notice and an opportunity to8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 888/2618