grounds during a scheduled termination interview at an asylum of fice or a hearing before an IJ. The
NOIT  must contain prima facie evidence supporting the termination ground(s).
The asylee must be given at least 30 days to respond to the NOIT  and present evidence that he or
she is still eligible for asylum. After considering the evidence, including the asylee’ s response, lack of a
response, or failure to appear , if the asylum of fice determines that one or more grounds of termination
have  been established by a preponderance of the evidence, the asylum of fice issues a Notice of
Termination (NOT) and a Notice to Appear (NT A).
Upon termination of asylum status, USCIS denies the pending adjustment application. The adjustment
of status denial must set forth the reason(s) for the denial. There is no appeal from the denial of the
adjustment of status application, but the applicant may renew the application for adjustment in his or
her removal proceedings before the immigration court.[2]
Alternatively , at the discretion of an Asylum Of fice Director , the asylum of fice may issue a NOIT  with
an NT A, referring the termination of asylum status to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) to pursue in removal proceedings. At any time after the applicant is issued a NOIT  and an NT A,
an IJ may terminate asylum granted by USCIS or legacy INS at a termination hearing held in
conjunction with removal proceedings. When a NOIT  and NT A have been filed with the immigration
court before the adjustment of status application is adjudicated, USCIS may deny the pending
adjustment application for lack of jurisdiction. The applicant may file an adjustment application in
removal proceedings.
Asylees Residing in the Ninth Circuit
In Nijjar v . Holder , the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals determined that USCIS cannot terminate
asylum[3] for asylees residing within the jurisdiction of the Ninth Circuit.[4] Rather , the asylum of fice
issues a NOIT  with an NT A, referring the termination of asylum status to ICE to pursue in removal
proceedings. If the applicant does not reside in the Ninth Circuit, the of ficer should forward the case to
the asylum of fice with jurisdiction over the applicant’ s current residential address for termination
review .
Derivative Asylees
Termination of asylum status for a principal asylee also results in termination of any derivative’ s
asylum status, if the derivative asylee[5] has not yet adjusted to lawful permanent resident (LPR)
status.[6] If USCIS issues a NOIT  to a principal asylee, the NOIT  also includes any derivative asylees
who have not yet adjusted status.
USCIS may terminate the asylum status of a derivative asylee who has not adjusted status and whose
asylum status was granted by USCIS,[7] even if the principal asylee was granted asylum by an IJ or
the BIA, so long as there is an independent ground to terminate the derivative’ s asylum status. If it is a8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1831/2618