Policy Manual
Current as of August 8, 2025
The USCIS Policy Manual is the agency’ s centralized online repository for USCIS’  immigration
policies. The USCIS Policy Manual will ultimately replace the Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), the
USCIS Immigration Policy Memoranda site, and other policy repositories.
About the Policy Manual
The USCIS Policy Manual is the agency’ s centralized online repository for USCIS’  immigration policies.
The Policy Manual is replacing the Adjudicator ’s Field Manual (AFM), the USCIS Immigration Policy
Memoranda site, and other USCIS policy repositories. The Policy Manual contains separate volumes
pertaining to dif ferent areas of immigration benefits administered by the agency , such as citizenship
and naturalization, adjustment of status, and nonimmigrants. The content is organized into dif ferent
volumes, parts, and chapters.
The Policy Manual provides transparency of immigration policies and furthers consistency , quality , and
efficiency consistent with the USCIS mission. The Policy Manual provides all the latest policy updates;
an expanded table of contents; keyword search function; and links to the Immigration and Nationality
Act and Code of Federal Regulations, as well as public use forms. The Policy Manual contains tables
and charts to facilitate understanding of complex topics. The Policy Manual also contains all historical
policy updates.
The Policy Manual contains the of ficial policies of USCIS and assists immigration of ficers in rendering
decisions. The Policy Manual is to be followed by all USCIS of ficers in the performance of their duties
but it does not remove their discretion in making adjudicatory decisions. The Policy Manual does not
create any substantive or procedural right or benefit that is legally enforceable by any party against the
United States or its agencies or of ficers or any other person.
How to use the USCIS Policy Manual website .8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1/2618