enforced by abuse, victims may act upon the traf ficker ’s demands for labor and services due to fear or
coercion and may feel that they do not have their own liberty or self-determination.
The following non-exhaustive list outlines circumstances where the traf ficker may control the victim’ s
liberty to create a condition of servitude:
An expectation that the victim’ s life fulfills the orders of the traf ficker (such as a demand from the
trafficker to perform domestic labor at an unreasonable level, including unreasonable working
hours or constant availability to perform labor regardless of health or energy);
Lack of control over the victim’ s own wages despite laboring under the traf ficker ’s demands; or
The imposition of unequal living arrangements as part of the campaign of force, fraud, and
coercion (for example, unequal sleeping arrangements, living arrangements, or access to
nourishment).
Conditions of Servitude Induced During a V oluntary Smuggling Arrangement
Aliens may experience violence over the course of their smuggling. While not all crimes or exploitation
that occur during a smuggling arrangement rise to the level of traf ficking, smuggling may develop into
trafficking. The existence of a voluntary smuggling arrangement does not invalidate the possibility of
involuntary servitude arising within the smuggling.
Peonage
Peonage is a status or condition of involuntary servitude based upon real or alleged indebtedness.[27]
In other words, the perpetrator compels the victim into involuntary servitude in order to satisfy a real or
artificially-created debt.
When a debtor voluntarily enters into a contract to pay of f a debt, that debtor , like any other contractor ,
can choose at any time to break the contract. It does not matter that a debtor entered into a contract
agreeing to perform services or labor for the creditor . There is a clear distinction between peonage
and voluntarily agreeing to perform labor or provide services in payment of a debt.
In determining whether an applicant has been a victim of peonage, of ficers should follow the guidance
above related to involuntary servitude, with the added element that the victim was held in involuntary
servitude in order to satisfy a real or artificially-created debt. If the facts support a finding that the
applicant was a victim of peonage, USCIS of ficers should also consider the applicant a victim of
involuntary servitude.
Debt Bondage
“Debt bondage” is the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of the
personal services of the debtor or those of a person under the debtor ’s control as a security for debt, if
the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 654/2618