If the petitioner has not submitted all required evidence or the evidence in the record does not
establish eligibility , the of ficer may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) or a NOID. The of ficer issues a
denial notice if the of ficer determines that the petitioner is not eligible to file the Form I-730 petition or
the beneficiary is not eligible for following-to-join status.[7]
If USCIS does not issue a denial for a Form I-730  petition during initial domestic processing, and the
petition is proceeding to adjudication, USCIS forwards the petition or adjudicates it, depending on
whether a USCIS domestic or international field of fice or DOS embassy or consulate will complete the
next processing steps.
If USCIS has a domestic field of fice or international field of fice with jurisdiction over the country where
the beneficiary is located, USCIS forwards the unadjudicated Form I-730  to a local of fice for a
beneficiary interview and adjudication by a USCIS of ficer. USCIS sends the Form I-730 petitioner a
transfer notice listing the USCIS domestic or international field of fice where the beneficiary will be
interviewed. The petitioner may also be requested to appear for an in-person interview at a USCIS
field of fice on a case-by-case basis.
If the beneficiary lives outside of the United States and USCIS does not have an international field
office with jurisdiction over the country where the beneficiary is located, USCIS adjudicates the Form I-
730 petition and forwards it to the DOS embassy or consulate where the beneficiary is located, for the
beneficiary interview and verification of travel eligibility .
When initial domestic processing is complete, USCIS issues an approval notice to the Form I-730
petitioner stating that USCIS has forwarded the petition to the NVC to be sent to the appropriate DOS
embassy or consulate.
C. Beneficiary Interview
Generally , USCIS does not require interviews for Form I-730  petitioners. However , USCIS retains the
discretion to interview petitioners on a case-by-case basis.[8]
As a matter of policy , USCIS or DOS interviews Form I-730  beneficiaries to determine their eligibility .
[9] The purpose of the interview is for the USCIS or DOS of ficer to verify the beneficiary’ s identity and
claimed relationship to the petitioner . The of ficer also elicits information to determine if the beneficiary
is barred or inadmissible.
1. Beneficiaries Located W ithin the United States
USCIS has jurisdiction over Form I-730  for a beneficiary who lives in the United States. After USCIS
completes initial intake, receipt, and initial domestic processing, USCIS forwards the petition to the
appropriate domestic USCIS field of fice with jurisdiction for further processing and adjudication.
USCIS interviews and adjudicates both following-to-join refugee (FTJ-R) and following-to-join asylee
(FTJ-A) petitions for beneficiaries who live in the United States.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 863/2618