(DOL) that existed at the time of filing.
During the INA 245(i)  qualifying time period and under authority delegated by DOL, permanent labor
certification applications were generally filed directly with the state workforce agency (SW A) (such as
a State Employment Service Agency) in the state where the of fered job was located. The SW A
indicated the filing date or receipt date on the first page of the ET A Form 750, Part A in the
“Endorsements” block located in the lower right corner , specifically in the area indicated as “L.O.”
(which indicates “local of fice”).
Therefore, a permanent labor certification application is considered properly filed where the SW A date-
stamped the application, thereby indicating the application was complete and accepted for processing.
Such a complete application remains properly filed, notwithstanding any need for the employer to
amend the application or provide additional documents and information as required by DOL  to
ultimately obtain a favorable adjudication of the application.[11]
Permanent labor certification applications received by a SW A that do not bear a “Filed Prior to 245(i)
Sunset” stamp may meet INA 245(i)  filing requirements if they were given a receipt date of no later
than April 30, 2001. USCIS accepts the receipt date that the DOL  or SW A ultimately assigned to the
permanent labor certification application.
2. Approvable When Filed[12]
An immigrant visa petition or permanent labor certification application is considered “approvable when
filed” if the petition or application was:
Properly filed;
Meritorious in fact; and
Non-frivolous.
Therefore, once the petition or application is determined to have been properly filed,[13] the petition or
application is considered approvable when filed if it is both meritorious in fact and non-frivolous.
Meritorious in Fact: Immigrant V isa Petition
To be considered “meritorious in fact,” the beneficiary of an immigrant visa petition must have met all
the substantive eligibility requirements at the time of filing for the specified immigrant category . Stated
another way , the immigrant visa petition is meritorious in fact if the petition merited a legal victory upon
filing had it been fully adjudicated, even if the petition was not fully processed or actually approved.[14]
For example, a beneficiary claiming to be the child of a U.S. citizen must have met the definition of a
child[15] at the time the immigrant petition was filed. In the case of a marriage-based immigrant visa
petition, the marriage must have been bona fide at its inception.[16] USCIS will consider all available8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1606/2618