Part C - Civil Surgeon Designation and Revocation
Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background
A. Purpose
USCIS designates eligible physicians as civil surgeons to perform medical examinations for
immigration benefit applicants in the United States.[1] Civil surgeons assess whether applicants have
any health conditions that could result in exclusion from the United States. 
Based on the results of the civil surgeon’ s assessment, USCIS determines whether the applicant is
admissible to the United States or whether the applicant is inadmissible based on health-related
grounds of inadmissibility . The health-related grounds of inadmissibility[2] and the medical examination
of applicants are designed to protect the health of the United States population. 
B. Background
The Immigration Act of 1882[3] first granted the Secretary of the Treasury the authority to examine
aliens arriving in the United States to prohibit the entry of any “person unable to take care of himself or
herself without becoming a public charge.” The Act provided that the examination be delegated to
state commissions, boards, or of ficers. 
The term “civil surgeon” was first introduced in the Immigration Act of 1891 as an alternative to
surgeons of the Marine Hospital Service if such surgeons were not available to perform the medical
examination on arriving aliens.[4]
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of 1952, as amended by the Homeland Security Act of
2002,[5] authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to designate civil surgeons if medical of ficers
of the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) are not available. USCIS exercises the authority to
designate civil surgeons on the Secretary’ s behalf, and may designate as many or as few civil
surgeons as needed.[6] Since USPHS medical of ficers are rarely available today , civil surgeons
generally provide all immigration medical examinations required in the United States. 
The civil surgeon’ s primary role is to perform immigration medical examinations to assess whether
aliens have any of the following medical conditions that could result in their inadmissibility:
Communicable disease of public health significance;
 Failure to show proof of required vaccinations (for immigrant visa applicants and adjustment of
status applicants only);
Physical or mental disorder with associated harmful behavior; and
Drug abuse or addiction.[7]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1932/2618