in the name of each F-2 or M-2 dependent and issued by a school certified by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE) Student and Exchange V isitor Program (SEVP) to admit F or M students.
B. Following to Join the Student
An F-1 student’ s spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 who are following to join the F-1
student in the United States are eligible for admission in F-2 status as dependent family members if
they are able to demonstrate that the F-1 student has been admitted and is, or will be within 30 days,
enrolled in a full course of study , or is engaged in approved practical training following completion of
studies.
At the time they seek admission, the dependent family members of an F-1 student must individually
present an original Form I-20  issued in the name of each F-2 dependent and issued by a school
certified by ICE SEVP  for attendance by F-1 students. A new Form I-20 is required for a dependent
family member where there has been any substantive change in the F-1 student’ s current information.
An M-1 student’ s spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 who are following to join the M-1
student in the United States are eligible for admission in M-2 status if they are able to demonstrate
that the M-1 student has been admitted and is, or will be within 30 days, enrolled in a full course of
study , or is engaged in approved practical training following completion of studies.
At the time they seek admission, the dependent family members of an M-1 student must individually
present an original Form I-20  issued in the name of each M-2 dependent and issued by a school
certified by ICE SEVP  for attendance by M-1 students. A new Form I-20 is required for a dependent
where there has been any substantive change in the M-1 student’ s current information.
C. Employment and Study
F-2 and M-2 dependents are not authorized to work in the United States. F-2 and M-2 nonimmigrants
are permitted to attend elementary , middle, and high school on a full-time basis. F-2 and M-2
nonimmigrants are also permitted to engage in study that is avocational or recreational in nature, or
less than full-time.[2] If a dependent wants to pursue a full course of study beyond the elementary ,
middle, or high school level, or beyond what is avocational or recreational, the dependent has the
option to request a change of status to that of an F-1 or M-1 nonimmigrant.
D. Period of Stay
1. F-2 Dependents
F-2 dependents are generally admitted concurrently with the duration of status of the F-1 student. F-2
dependents are not required to seek an extension of stay as long as they were admitted for duration of
status and the F-1 student maintains their student status.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 429/2618