shortage and issuing the appropriate statement on its website for civil surgeons. In turn, USCIS issues
the appropriate statement on its website. 
Additionally , civil surgeons should annotate “not routinely available” on the Report of Immigration
Medical Examination and V accination Record ( Form I-693 ) if the COVID-19 vaccine is not routinely
available in the state where the civil surgeon practices. In addition, if the vaccine is available to the
applicant but due to limited supply , it would cause significant delay for the applicant to receive the
vaccination, then the civil surgeon should also annotate “not routinely available” on Form I-693.[13]
USCIS may grant a blanket waiver in these cases.
The term “nationwide vaccine shortage” does not apply to the medical examination conducted by a
panel physician overseas. If a vaccine is not available in the applicant’ s country , the panel physician
annotates the vaccination assessment with the term “not routinely available.” If an of ficer encounters
this annotation, the of ficer may grant a blanket waiver based on this annotation alone. 
E. W aiver due to Religious Belief or Moral Conviction[14] 
1. General
USCIS may grant this waiver when the applicant establishes that compliance with the vaccination
requirements would be contrary to his or her religious beliefs or moral convictions. Unlike other
waivers of medical grounds of inadmissibility , there is no requirement that CDC review this waiver .
If, upon review of the medical documentation, the of ficer finds that the applicant is missing a vaccine
and a blanket waiver is not available, the of ficer should ask the applicant why the vaccine is missing.
The of ficer may request clarification during an interview or by sending an RFE. 
If the applicant indicates that he or she does not oppose vaccinations based on religious beliefs or
moral convictions, the applicant may be inadmissible if he or she refuses to obtain the missing
vaccine(s). The of ficer should issue an RFE if the applicant is willing to obtain the vaccine.
If the applicant indicates that he or she opposes vaccinations, the of ficer should inform the applicant of
the possibility of the waiver . The of ficer should explain the basic waiver requirements for a
religious belief or moral conviction waiver , as outlined below . The of ficer should, at that time, issue an
RFE[15] for the waiver application. 
Upon receipt of the waiver documentation, the of ficer should proceed with the adjudication of the
waiver . 
2. Requirements
With the adjudication of this waiver , USCIS has always taken particular caution to avoid any perceived
infringement on personal beliefs and First Amendment rights to free speech and religion. To best8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2155/2618