If the pr otected per son… Then
only receives a courtesy copy of any notices sent to
the protected person.
Provided only a physical address and
selected the option on the Form G-28 that
the Form I-94 be sent to the protected
person’ s mailing address.For victim-based forms, USCIS sends the Form I-94
to the address of the protected person’ s
representative, regardless of their selections on the
Form G-28.[34]
For non-victim-based forms,[35] USCIS sends the
Form I-94 to the physical address listed on the Form
G-28. The representative only receives a courtesy
copy of any notices sent to the protected person.
Protected Persons Without a Representative
If the pr otected per son… Then
Provided a safe mailing address
or preferred mailing address.Provided only a physical address.
Provided only a physical address.USCIS sends all original notices and secure identity documents
to the protected person’ s physical address listed on the form.
[36]
Instructions for Mailing Address Procedures for Protected Persons with Multiple Pending Forms  
If the protected person has more than one pending benefit request, in general, USCIS uses the safe
mailing address or preferred mailing address that the person listed on the relevant form. USCIS may
send correspondence to multiple addresses depending on the protected person’ s preferences listed
on the relevant form or Form G-28.
Example
A protected person lists a friend’ s address as a safe mailing address on a Petition for U Nonimmigrant
Status ( Form I-918 ), but uses their physical address as a mailing address on their pending Application
for Temporary Protected Status ( Form I-821 ). In this case, USCIS considers the friend’ s address as
the safe or preferred mailing address for the Form I-918. However , USCIS considers the physical
address as the safe or preferred mailing address for the Form I-821. If the protected person has a
Form G-28 on file, USCIS sends all original notices or secure documents according to their
preferences listed on Form G-28.8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 184/2618