If the P AP met the requirements for a “full and final” adoption of the child abroad,[25] the P AP must
submit:
A legible, certified copy of the final adoption decree showing that the P AP (and the P AP’s
spouse, if married) adopted the child; and
Evidence that the petitioner (or spouse, if married) personally saw and observed the child before
or during the adoption proceedings.[26]
If the P AP did not meet the requirements for a “full and final” adoption of the child abroad, but did
obtain a final adoption or legal custody , the P AP must submit:
A certified copy of the adoption decree or custodial decree, showing that the P AP secured legal
custody in accordance with the laws of the foreign-sending country; and
Evidence that the person, organization, or competent authority that has legal custody or control
over the child has irrevocably released the child for emigration and adoption. This may be
evidenced by a court order or release by the previous legal custodian of the child giving the child
up for adoption to the named P AP(s) with their U.S. residence clearly incorporated into the order .
6. Proof of Compliance with Pre-Adoption and State Requirements
If the P AP did not meet the requirements for a “full and final” adoption of the child abroad,[27] the P AP
must submit:
Evidence that the state of the child’ s proposed residence allows (re)adoption or provides for
judicial recognition of the adoption abroad; and
Evidence of compliance with all state pre-adoption requirements, if any . If state law prevents the
PAP from complying with any pre-adoption requirements before the child's arrival in the United
States, the P AP must note the missing requirements and provide an explanation. USCIS does
not, however , approve orphan petitions for a specific child without evidence of compliance with
requirements or an explanation why the P AP cannot meet the requirements before the child’ s
arrival.
C. Primary and Secondary Evidence
A PAP should submit primary evidence when available. Primary evidence is evidence that, on its face,
proves a fact. For example, primary evidence of death is a death certificate.
Not all countries, however , have the same kind of documentary practices as the United States. If
primary evidence is not available, a P AP must demonstrate its unavailability and should submit
secondary evidence.[28] If both primary and secondary evidence are unavailable, the P AP must
demonstrate the unavailability of the primary and secondary evidence and submit two or more
affidavits that are sworn to or af firmed by persons who are not parties to the petition who have direct
personal knowledge of the event and circumstances.[29]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 961/2618