2. Fraud or Misrepresentation
Fraud in the adoption context typically involves concealment of a material fact to obtain an of ficial
document or judgment by a court or authorized entity (for example, an adoption decree). To meet the
requirement of materiality , evidence of fraud must be documented and generally relate to the child’ s
eligibility as an orphan.
B. Child Matches Characteristics that Prospective Adoptive Parent Is Approved For
During the suitability application process (or orphan petition process, if there was no prior suitability
application), the of ficer determined that the P AP was a suitable adoptive parent for a child with specific
characteristics.[3] The child must match the characteristics that the P AP has been approved to adopt
(such as age, sex, nationality , and special needs).
If the child does not match the characteristics for which USCIS has approved the P AP to adopt, then
the of ficer should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE)[4] for an updated home study and any related
documents.
1. Special Needs
The of ficer should review evidence to verify whether the child has any special needs (such as a
significant disability or medical condition). The of ficer should:
Ensure that any significant or serious disability or medical condition of the child is not excluded
by special conditions established in the suitability application approval; and
Verify that the P AP is aware of and accepts any significant medical, physical, or mental
condition.
If an of ficer discovers that the child has a significant disability or medical condition that the P AP is not
aware of, the of ficer must:
Furnish the P AP with all pertinent details concerning the impairment, disability , or condition. This
is especially important in cases where the P AP has not personally observed the child; and
Halt adjudication of the case until the P AP submits an updated home study recommending the
PAP to provide proper care for such child and USCIS determines the P AP is suitable to provide
proper care for such child.[5]
2. Age
The child must meet the age range listed on the suitability application approval at the time the referral
or match was accepted by the P AP, or if the accepted referral or match date cannot be established,
the filing date of the orphan petition.[6] If the child does not match the age range for which USCIS has8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 955/2618