4. Established to Facilitate Self-Employment
An alien is ineligible for classification as a TN professional if evidence indicates that the enterprise he
or she will work for in the United States was established to facilitate self-employment. The following
activities may indicate such an intent:
Incorporation of an enterprise in which the alien will be self-employed; or
Initiation of communications (for example, by direct mail or by advertising) for the purpose of
obtaining employment or entering into contracts for an enterprise in which the alien will be self-
employed the United States.
On the other hand, the following activities do not constitute the establishment of a business in which
the alien will be self-employed in the United States:
Responding to unsolicited inquiries about service(s) that he or she may be able to perform; or
Establishing business premises from which to deliver prearranged services to clients.
C. Prearranged Professional Services
To obtain TN classification, an alien must be seeking admission to provide prearranged professional
services to an individual person or an enterprise.[11] If the business activities are provided to an
enterprise, the enterprise must be substantively separate from the alien seeking entry .
To constitute prearranged professional services, a formal arrangement must be in place to provide
professional services to an individual person or an enterprise in the United States. The formal
arrangement may be through an employee-employer relationship or through a signed contract
between the alien or the alien’ s employer and a person or enterprise in the United States.
D. Professional Activities in the United States
The enterprise in the United States for which the business activities are to be performed may take any
legal form.[12] The enterprise can be “any entity constituted or organized under applicable law ,
whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or government-owned, including any
corporation, trust partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture or other association.”[13]
Footnotes
[^ 1] Even though the United States-Mexico-Canada-Agreement (USMCA) replaces NAFT A, the
USMCA  retains all substantive elements of the former NAFT A, and the United States continues to use
the TN designation for NAFT A/USMCA  professionals.
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 214.6(a)-(c) .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 627/2618