may at its discretion separately bill the requestor for the unpaid fee instead of sending a NOIR. If a
requestor receives such a NOIR, the requestor may respond with payment of the correct fee amount.
USCIS does not ultimately revoke, rescind, or cancel the approval on the basis of an unfunded fee
payment if the requestor cures the deficiency noted in the NOIR with payment of the correct fee
amount. USCIS may revoke the approval with notice of an approved benefit request that required
multiple fees if any single fee is unfunded. In such cases, any other fees paid for the approved benefit
request are non-refundable.[21]
B. Forms of Payment
USCIS accepts dif ferent payment methods depending on whether the benefit requestor resides inside
or outside of the United States or the nature of the request. USCIS does not accept all forms of
payment. Details regarding acceptable forms and methods of payment can be found on the Filing
Fees  webpage.
Benefit requestors filing from inside the United States may pay their fees in one of the following ways,
depending on the form that is being submitted:
Online using a credit card, debit card, or bank withdrawal; or
By mail with an Authorization for Credit Card Transactions (Form G-1450) , check, or money
order .
In limited circumstances, an individual may submit a benefit request directly at a USCIS field of fice. In
such cases, the benefit requestor may submit their request and appropriate fee by mail to the field
office using either a check or Form G-1450 .[22]
Benefit requestors filing from outside the United States should go to the Forms  webpage to determine
whether a form may be filed from outside of the United States. Depending on the form, the benefit
requestor may pay fees online, by mail, or in person at a U.S. embassy or consulate.[23]
1. Credit Card, Debit Card, or Pre-paid Card
USCIS accepts payments by credit card, debit card, or pre-paid card for fees associated with benefit
requests filed with one of the USCIS Lockbox facilities, the appropriate Service Center , and most
USCIS field of fice locations.
Applicants filing by mail must use Form G-1450  to pay with a credit card, debit card, or pre-paid card.
USCIS uses the information provided on Form G-1450  to process a credit card, debit card, or pre-paid
card payment through either the U.S. Department of Treasury Pay .gov Collection Control Panel (CCP)
or the Trusted Collections Service (TCS).
CCP  and TCS are web-based applications that allow federal government agencies to process
payments by credit, debit, or prepaid cards. After USCIS processes Form G-1450, USCIS destroys the8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 219/2618