continued to employ the beneficiary while the beneficiary was in the United States. Furthermore, the
continuous year of foreign employment must be qualifying; that is, the petitioner must demonstrate
that the beneficiary worked abroad during that period in a managerial, executive, or specialized
knowledge capacity .
2. Requirement Must be Satisfied When Petitioner Files L-1 Petition
The beneficiary must meet the 1-year foreign employment requirement at the time that the petitioner
files the L-1 petition.
The 1-year foreign employment requirement ensures the continuity of a beneficiary’ s lawful
employment with the same international qualifying organization, consistent with the purpose of the
intracompany transferee nonimmigrant classification. Therefore, the proper reference point for
determining the 1-year foreign employment requirement is the date the petitioner files the initial L-1
petition on the beneficiary’ s behalf, the starting point in the alien’ s application for admission in L-1
status.
When the petitioner requests an extension of L-1 status (including a change from L-1A  to L-1B status,
or a change from L-1B to L-1A  status), the 1-year requirement must have been met at the time of the
filing of the initial L-1 petition.
3. Brief V isits to United States and T olling of 1-Y ear Period
Brief visits for business or pleasure in B-1 or B-2 status do not interrupt the 1-year foreign employment
requirement. While a qualifying foreign entity employs a beneficiary abroad, brief trips to the United
States for business or pleasure in B-1 or B-2 status toll[47] the one continuous year of employment
abroad. Therefore, in such cases, of ficers should subtract the number of days the beneficiary spent in
the United States from the time the qualifying foreign entity employed the beneficiary abroad.
For example, if the qualifying foreign entity began employing the beneficiary on January 1, 2016, and
the beneficiary made brief trips to the United States that year for a total of 60 days, the beneficiary
would need to accrue at least an additional 60 days of qualifying employment abroad after January 1,
2017 to meet the 1-year foreign employment requirement.
4. Working in United States for Qualifying Organization Results in Adjustment of 3-Y ear Period
Time a beneficiary spent working in the United States for a qualifying organization does not count
towards the 1-year foreign employment requirement; however , this time does result in an adjustment
of the 3-year period, in that the running of the 3-year period is tolled during that period.
USCIS considers a nonimmigrant in the United States to have come to this country to work for the
qualifying organization if the nonimmigrant is employed by that organization as a principal beneficiary
of an employment-based nonimmigrant petition or application, such as H-1B or E-2 executive,
supervisory , or essential employee. If the beneficiary was admitted to work for the qualifying8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 499/2618