Applicants who obtain relief through a private immigration bill signed into law .
In these cases, the of ficer should review any specific eligibility and evidentiary requirements that apply
to the program or law to ensure the applicant is eligible to adjust on that basis.
9. Additional Evidence for Eligibility
Additional evidence is required for certain applicants in order to meet specific eligibility requirements.
For instance, an applicant may need to submit marriage certificates or divorce decrees to establish the
required relationship for the classification. Additionally , applicants under most preference categories
may need to submit evidence that they are not subject to any bars to adjustment as a result of failing
to maintain their nonimmigrant status, working without authorization, or otherwise violating the terms
of their nonimmigrant status. 
B. Unavailability of Records and the Use of Affidavits
There are certain situations where an applicant may not be able to provide the required primary
evidence but may be able to submit secondary evidence. When submitting secondary evidence, an
applicant must establish that the required primary document is unavailable or does not exist.[13]
1. Establishing Required Primary Document Is Unavailable or Does Not Exist[14]
To establish that a required primary document is unavailable or does not exist, an applicant must
submit letters of certification of non-existence issued by the appropriate civil authority . These letters
must:
Be an original written statement from a civil authority on of ficial government letterhead;
Establish the nonexistence or unavailability of the document;
Indicate the reason the record does not exist; and
Indicate whether similar records for the time and place are available.
Certification of non-existence from a civil authority is not required where the Department of State’ s
Reciprocity Schedule  indicates this type of document generally does not exist. An of ficer should
consult the Reciprocity Schedule before issuing a Request for Evidence (RFE) for a missing document
that is required. 
If an applicant is unable to obtain a letter of certification of non-existence issued by the appropriate
civil authority , the applicant or petitioner may submit evidence that repeated good faith attempts were
made to obtain the required documentation.
2. Secondary Evidence
Once an applicant has demonstrated that a required primary document is unavailable, the applicant
may submit appropriate secondary evidence, such as church or school records pertaining to the facts8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1448/2618