An F-1 nonimmigrant student authorized by the student’ s DSO to engage in of f-campus employment
must file a Form I-765 with USCIS and include a copy of a properly endorsed Form I-20 with the filing.
An F-1 student must receive employment authorization and an EAD from USCIS before engaging in
off-campus employment.[21]
To engage in of f-campus employment more than 20 hours per week consistent with a designation of
SSR, the F-1 student must demonstrate to the DSO that the employment is necessary to avoid severe
economic hardship resulting from the emergent circumstances, and the DSO must notate the
student’ s Form I-20  in accordance with the Federal Register notice.[22]
USCIS may only grant of f-campus employment authorization due to severe economic hardship for up
to 1 year ,[23] unless the Secretary of Homeland Security suspends the applicability of this requirement
through publication of a Federal Register notice. If the 1-year limitation is suspended, USCIS may
grant SSR employment authorization for the duration of the Federal Register notice validity period, but
the period of authorization may not exceed the F-1 student’ s academic program end date.
3. Existing Employment Authorization
If an F-1 student already has of f-campus employment authorization, they may benefit from SSR
without applying for a new EAD. To benefit from SSR in this context, the F-1 student must request that
the student’ s DSO update the remarks field of the F-1 student’ s Form I-20 , in accordance with the
Federal Register notice.
An F-1 student authorized by a DSO for on-campus employment does not need to apply for an EAD
solely because of publication of a Federal Register notice if the F-1 student does not seek to engage
in off-campus employment. If consistent with the Federal Register notice, the F-1 student may drop
below what would otherwise be the minimum course load. In such a case, the F-1 student must
request that the DSO update the remarks field of the F-1 student’ s Form I-20, in accordance with the
Federal Register notice.
D. F-1 Student Sponsored by an International Organization
An F-1 student who has been of fered employment by a recognized international organization[24] must
apply for employment authorization from USCIS.
A student seeking employment authorization under this provision is required to present a written
certification from the international organization that the proposed employment is within the scope of
the organization’ s sponsorship; a Form I-20  with the employment page completed by the DSO
certifying eligibility for employment; and a completed Form I-765  with the required fee.
An F-1 student must receive employment authorization and an EAD from USCIS before engaging in
off-campus employment.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 415/2618