The child’ s parent(s) are legally deceased; and
The child has not acquired another parent (such as a stepparent or legal adoptive parent) as
defined by U.S. immigration law .
6. Separation
Separation (commonly known as termination of parental rights) means:
The involuntary severance of the child from the child’ s parents by action of a competent authority
for good cause (such as child abuse or neglect) and in accordance with the laws of the foreign-
sending country;
The competent authority properly notified the parents and granted the opportunity to contest
such action; and
The termination of all parental rights and obligations is permanent and unconditional.
C. Sole or Surviving Parent
1. Sole Parent
Only a birth mother can be a sole parent. The birth mother may qualify as a sole parent if:
The birth mother was unmarried at the time of the child’ s birth (child was born out of wedlock);[6]
The child was not legitimated while in the legal custody of the birth father (as described in the
legitimation section below);
The birth father is unknown, or has disappeared, abandoned, or deserted the child, or
irrevocably released the child for emigration and adoption (in writing), in accordance with the
laws of the foreign-sending country;
The child does not have any other legal parents within the meaning of U.S. immigration law;[7]
The birth mother is incapable of providing proper care (is unable to provide for the child’ s basic
needs, consistent with the local standards of the foreign-sending country);[8]and
The birth mother , in writing, irrevocably releases the child for emigration and adoption, in
accordance with the laws of the foreign-sending country .
Legitimation
The birth mother cannot be a sole parent if the child was legitimated while in the legal custody of the
birth father . Legitimation means “placing a child born out of wedlock in the same legal position as a
child born in wedlock.”[9] The law of the child’ s residence or domicile, or the law of the father ’s
residence or domicile, is the relevant law to determine whether a child has been legitimated. It is not
necessary to consider whether a child has been legitimated unless the birth father ever had sole or
joint legal custody of the child. [10]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 948/2618