and refugee status and may genuinely think they are refugees. These applicants are not eligible for
adjustment of status under the refugee adjustment of status provisions. The most commonly
encountered non-refugees are:
Asylees
Asylum may be granted to persons who are already in the United States and meet the definition of a
refugee. Asylees are similar to refugees in many ways and in some cases may be confused with
refugees. However , asylees gain status through either an Application for Asylum and for Withholding of
Removal ( Form I-589 ) approved by an Asylum Of fice, Immigration Judge or the Board of Immigration
Appeals, or by obtaining a visa through an approved relative petition for derivative asylees not
included on the original asylum application. Asylees also may apply for adjustment of status under INA
209, but through a process separate from the refugee adjustment process.[1]
Lautenberg Parolees
As part of a program under the Lautenberg Amendment first introduced in 1990, certain aliens from
the former Soviet Union found to be ineligible for refugee status and whose applications are denied
can be of fered parole into the United States. These persons include, but are not necessarily limited
to: Jews, Evangelical Christians, and Ukrainian Christians of the Orthodox and Roman Catholic
denominations. Prior to mid-1994, Lautenberg parolees also included certain V ietnamese,
Cambodians, and Laotians. Lautenberg parolees will usually have a denied Form I-590 and a travel
letter , or an Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94)showing that they were paroled into the United
States. Lautenberg parolees may adjust status under Section 599E of the Foreign Operations, Export
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1990.[2]
Cuban Entrants
Since 1959, thousands of Cuban nationals have been paroled or admitted into the United States,
many for humanitarian reasons but not as refugees. Although Cubans from the port of Mariel, Cuba,
entered the United States shortly after the enactment of the Refugee Act of 1980 and may have
documentation that seems to indicate refugee status, they do not adjust status as
refugees. Such persons who have been physically present in the United States for 1 year can adjust
status under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966. 
Indochinese Parolees
Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, thousands of citizens of V ietnam, Cambodia, and Laos were
paroled into the United States under the Orderly Departure Program. Those who were paroled into
the United States before October 1, 1997 and who were in the United States on that day may adjust
status under Section 586 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act of 2001.[3]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1789/2618