mental status evaluation diagnoses the presence of an alcohol use disorder (abuse or dependence),
and where there is evidence of harmful behavior associated with the disorder , a Class A medical
condition should be certified on Report of Immigration Medical Examination and V accination Record
(Form I-693 ). 
2. Re-Examinations
Requesting Re-Examinations
Some applicants may fail to report, or may underreport, alcohol-related driving incidents in response to
the civil surgeon’ s queries. Where these incidents resulted in an arrest, they may be subsequently
revealed in the criminal history record resulting from a routine fingerprint check. Consequently , a
criminal record printout revealing a significant history of alcohol-related driving arrests may conflict
with the medical examination report that indicates no alcohol-related driving incidents were reported to
or evaluated by the civil surgeon.
In such an instance, an of ficer may require the applicant to be re-examined. The re-examination would
be limited to a mental status evaluation specifically considering the record of alcohol-related driving
incidents. On the Request for Evidence (RFE), of ficers should use the following language: “Please
return to the civil surgeon for purposes of conducting a mental status evaluation specifically
considering the record of alcohol-related driving incidents.”
Upon re-examination, the civil surgeon may refer the applicant for further evaluation to a psychiatrist
or to a specialist in substance-abuse disorders as provided for under the Technical Instructions. After
such referral, the civil surgeon will determine whether a Class A medical condition exists and amend
the Form I-693  accordingly . The determination of a Class A condition is wholly dependent on the
medical diagnosis of a designated civil surgeon. 
Re-Examination for Significant Criminal Record of Alcohol-Related Driving Incidents
Only applicants with a significant criminal record of alcohol-related driving incidents that were not
considered by the civil surgeon during the original medical examination should be referred for re-
examination. 
The actual criminal charges for alcohol-related driving incidents vary among the dif ferent states. A
significant criminal record of alcohol-related driving incidents includes:
One or more arrests/convictions for alcohol-related driving incidents (DUI/DWI) while the driver ’s
license was suspended, revoked, or restricted at the time of the arrest due to a previous alcohol-
related driving incident(s);
One or more arrests/convictions for alcohol-related driving incidents where personal injury or
death resulted from the incident(s);8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1914/2618