authorization for 24 months from the expiration date on the Form I-94, unless the adjustment
application is denied or withdrawn, whichever is earlier . 
Principal T-1 nonimmigrants seeking to adjust status may file an Application for Employment
Authorization ( Form I-765 ) concurrently with the adjustment application to obtain an Employment
Authorization Document (EAD). While the adjustment application is pending, USCIS issues any EAD,
as well as renewals of such EAD, using the (c)(9) eligibility code.[7]
USCIS also issues derivative T nonimmigrants who properly file an adjustment application a receipt
notice. USCIS does not extend the status of a derivative T nonimmigrant based solely on the principal
T nonimmigrant’ s pending adjustment application. Derivatives must independently file an adjustment
application. To obtain employment authorization during the extended period of T nonimmigrant status,
derivative T nonimmigrants must file an Application for Employment Authorization (Form I-765).
2. Extensions Based on Law Enforcement Need or Exceptional Circumstances
To request an extension of T nonimmigrant status based on law enforcement need or exceptional
circumstances, the T nonimmigrant must file an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status
(Form I-539 ), along with supporting evidence, in accordance with the form instructions. The T
nonimmigrant bears the burden of establishing eligibility for this discretionary extension of status.
Derivative family members who have not previously entered or resided in the United States as a T
nonimmigrant cannot receive an extension of status. Instead, USCIS may issue an amended approval
notice with updated validity dates.
If USCIS approves the Form I-539, USCIS issues a notice of extension of the T nonimmigrant status
on a Notice of Action (Form I-797).
The extension of T nonimmigrant status based on law enforcement need or exceptional circumstances
is valid for 1 year from the date the initial T nonimmigrant status ends. In the case of a Form I-539
untimely filed after T nonimmigrant status has expired, the extension is valid from the date the
previous status expired and for 1 year from approval of the extension.[8] During that period, the
applicant continues to be in valid T nonimmigrant status with all the associated rights, privileges, and
responsibilities.
USCIS issues any EAD (including renewals) using the (a)(16) eligibility code for principals and (c)(25)
eligibility code for derivatives.[9] Applicants must file an application for employment authorization in
order to receive an EAD, which they may file concurrently with Form I-539.
C. Timing of Application
The applicant should file the Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status ( Form I-539 ) before
the applicant’ s T nonimmigrant status expires. USCIS, however , has discretion to grant an extension8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 711/2618