advanced degree classification). However , the employer cannot require that the position’ s duties and
requirements be less than the state’ s minimum licensing requirements.
An advanced degree is commonly the minimum requirement for licensure for the occupation of
physical therapist. Previously , a bachelor ’s degree was the minimum requirement for licensure in the
occupation. As noted above, many states have “grandfathering” clauses that allow those who obtained
a bachelor ’s degree under the previous licensing requirements to continue working in the field. If a
“grandfathered” beneficiary can show that he or she has 5 years of progressive experience following
receipt of the bachelor ’s degree, then he or she may be able to qualify under the advanced degree
professional classification.
USCIS defines an advanced degree as any U.S. academic or professional degree or a foreign
equivalent degree above that of a bachelor ’s degree. USCIS considers an academic or professional
degree above that of a bachelor ’s degree an advanced degree if the occupation requires that degree.
Therefore, a U.S. or foreign equivalent bachelor ’s degree would not qualify a beneficiary for the
advanced degree professional classification, unless the beneficiary also possesses 5 years of
progressive experience following the award of the bachelor ’s degree.
The beneficiary must have obtained both the bachelor ’s degree and the 5 years of progressive
experience before the filing date of the permanent labor certification. In addition, USCIS does not
consider training certifications and similar documents that are not academic or professional as
advanced degrees.[56]
2. Immigrants of Exceptional Ability (Group II)
For Schedule A, Group II occupations, an employer may seek to classify the position as an advanced
degree professional or immigrant of exceptional ability .[57] However , it is possible that an employer
may seek to classify the position as a skilled worker or professional if the position does not require an
advanced degree or a person of exceptional ability .
Officers should not confuse the requirements to designate a beneficiary under Schedule A, Group II
(immigrants of exceptional ability in the sciences or arts, including performing arts) with the
requirements to classify someone under the EB-2 category (for immigrants of exceptional ability in the
sciences, arts, or business). Though both DOL  and USCIS regulations refer to aliens of “exceptional
ability ,” each regulation defines the term “exceptional ability” dif ferently .
DOL defines “exceptional ability” for Schedule A, Group II designation as “widespread acclaim and
international recognition accorded the alien by recognized experts in the alien’ s field.” USCIS defines
exceptional ability for purposes of the EB-2 category as “a degree of expertise significantly above that
ordinarily encountered in the sciences, arts or business.”[58]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1131/2618