Additionally , the merits of the entrepreneur ’s business, business plan, product, or technology may
undergo various forms of review by third parties, such as prospective investors, retailers, or other
industry experts. Accordingly , letters and other statements from relevant third-party reviewers, may
have probative value in demonstrating the substantial merit and national importance of the endeavor
and that the individual is well positioned to advance the endeavor .
Generally , many entrepreneurial endeavors are measured in terms of revenue generation, profitability ,
valuations, cash flow , or customer adoption. However , other metrics may be of equal importance in
determining whether the petitioner has established each of the three prongs.
As noted in Matter of Dhanasar , “many innovations and entrepreneurial endeavors may ultimately fail,
in whole or in part, despite an intelligent plan and competent execution.”[103] Accordingly , petitioners
are not required to establish that the proposed endeavor is more likely than not to ultimately succeed
based solely on the typical metrics used to measure entrepreneurial endeavors (although such
showings may be considered favorably).
They instead need to show that the proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national
importance, that the petitioner is well positioned to advance the proposed endeavor , and that on
balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive the requirements of a job of fer and thus of
a labor certification.
Evidence establishing the petitioner ’s past entrepreneurial achievements and that corroborates
projections of future work in the national interest are favorable factors. Claims lacking corroborating
evidence are not suf ficient to meet the petitioner ’s burden of proof. As in all cases, of ficers must
consider the totality of circumstances to determine whether each of the three prongs is established by
a preponderance of the evidence.
Footnotes
[^ 1] This section uses the term beneficiary to refer to the alien; however , if the advanced degree
professional also seeks a national interest waiver of the job of fer, he or she can self-petition. See
Section D, National Interest W aiver of Job Of fer [6 USCIS-PM F .5(D)].
[^ 2] See 8 CFR 204.5(k)(2)  (defining profession as one of the occupations listed in INA 101(a)(32) , as
well as any occupation for which a U.S. baccalaureate degree or its foreign equivalent is the minimum
requirement for entry into the occupation).
[^ 3] See INA 203(b)(2)(A) . See 8 CFR 204.5(k) .For a discussion of considerations for petitioners
seeking a national interest waiver where the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) does not certify the job
requirements, see Section D, National Interest W aiver of Job Of fer, Subsection 1, Eligibility for Second
Preference Classification [ 6 USCIS-PM F .5(D)(1) ].8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1215/2618