not need to understand every word or phrase on the application.
Passing the Speaking T est
If the applicant generally understands and responds meaningfully to questions relevant to his or her
naturalization eligibility , then he or she has suf ficiently demonstrated the ability to speak English. 
Failing the Speaking T est
An applicant fails the speaking test when he or she does not understand suf ficient English to be
placed under oath or to answer the eligibility questions on his or her naturalization application. The
officer must still administer all other parts of the naturalization test, including the portions on reading,
writing, and civics.
An of ficer cannot of fer or accept a withdrawal of a naturalization application from an applicant who
does not speak English unless the applicant has an interpreter present who is able to clearly
understand the consequences of withdrawing the application.[9]
2. Reading T est
To suf ficiently demonstrate the ability to read in English, applicants must read one sentence out of
three sentences. The reading test is administered by the of ficer using standardized reading test forms.
Once the applicant reads one of the three sentences correctly , the of ficer stops the reading test. 
Passing the Reading T est
An applicant passes the reading test if the applicant reads one of the three sentences without
extended pauses in a manner that the applicant is able to convey the meaning of the sentence and the
officer is able to understand the sentence. In general, the applicant must read all content words but
may omit short words or make pronunciation or intonation errors that do not interfere
with the meaning. 
Failing the Reading T est
An applicant fails the reading test if he or she does not successfully read at least one of the three
sentences. An applicant fails to read a sentence successfully when he or she:
Omits a content word or substitutes another word for a content word; 
Pauses for extended periods of time while reading the sentence; or 
Makes pronunciation or intonation errors to the extent that the applicant is not able to convey the
meaning of the sentence and the of ficer is not able to understand the sentence.
3. Writing T est8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2368/2618