Health Department Stamp or Seal
The health department is also required to af fix either the of ficial stamp or raised seal (whichever is
customarily used) of that health department on the space designated on the form.
As with all immigration medical examinations, the signed Form I-693  must be placed in a sealed
envelope, according to the form’ s instructions. 
B. Blanket Designation of Military Physicians as Civil Surgeons
1. Overview
USCIS, in consultation with CDC, has authorized a blanket civil surgeon designation to military
physicians for the completion of all parts of a required immigration medical examination for members
and veterans of the U.S. armed forces, and certain dependents who are eligible to receive medical
care from military physicians at military treatment facilities (MTFs).
Effective July 26, 2021, USCIS is extending this blanket civil surgeon designation to allow military
physicians to also complete the immigration medical examination for certain Afghan nationals seeking
a special immigrant visa, including both principal applicants and eligible family members, in
coordination with Operation Allies Refuge.[12]
This blanket civil surgeon designation recognizes the service and sacrifices made by U.S. armed
forces members and veterans, as well as translators, interpreters, and other professionals employed
by or on behalf of the U.S. government in Afghanistan and their eligible dependents. It also eases the
difficulties these persons may encounter in obtaining the required immigration medical examination in
the United States. The blanket civil surgeon designation also facilitates the civil surgeon designation
process for military physicians and relieves USCIS of the need to maintain lists of individual military
physicians designated as civil surgeons.
2. Eligible Physicians
Participation in this blanket civil surgeon designation is entirely voluntary and at the discretion of each
medical facility . This blanket designation only applies to military physicians who:
Meet the professional qualifications of a civil surgeon[13] except that the physician may be
licensed in any state in the United States, and is not required to be licensed in the state in which
the physician is performing the immigration medical examination; 
Are employed by the Department of Defense (DOD) or provides medical services to U.S. armed
forces members, veterans, and their dependents as military contract providers or civilian
physicians; and
Are authorized to provide medical services at a military treatment facility (MTF) within the United
States. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1942/2618