At a facility that jointly serves members of the U.S. armed forces, dependents, and civilians on
Guam or in the CNMI.
4. Documentation and Evidence
All petitioners that request their cases to be considered for eligibility under the NDAA  H-2B temporary
need exemption should submit a cover sheet indicating “NDAA  Eligible” in large, bold letters along with
their H-2B petition to facilitate ef ficient adjudication.
In addition, USCIS suggests petitioners submit the following documentation, if applicable.
If claiming eligibility directly connected to, supporting, or associated with the military realignment,
petitioners should submit:
A copy of any applicable agreement, contract, or subcontract for services or labor for
construction, repairs, renovations, or facility services or other probative evidence that each
requested H-2B position meets the requirement that the worker will perform services or labor on
Guam or in the CNMI;[23]
A signed statement from an of ficial within the DOD (including a branch of the U.S. armed forces)
providing the DOD view regarding whether the applicable agreement, contract, or subcontract is
directly connected to, supporting, or associated with the military realignment. The DOD
statement may also explain that the services or labor are performed under a federally funded
agreement, if applicable. If this DOD statement is not provided, the petitioner should establish
why it could not be obtained; and
Any other relevant documentation demonstrating that services or labor will be performed under a
federally funded agreement to support priority consideration of NDAA  eligibility , if applicable, if
that information is not included in the DOD statement.
If claiming eligibility due to an adverse ef fect related to the military realignment on Guam and in the
CNMI, the petitioner should submit:
A copy of any applicable agreement, contract, or subcontract for services or labor for
construction, repairs, renovations, or facility services, as well as other probative evidence that
each requested H-2B position meets the requirement that the worker will perform services or
labor on Guam or in the CNMI;
A detailed explanation, accompanied by any relevant supporting evidence, explaining how and
why the project has been adversely af fected by the military realignment;[24] and
For services or labor on Guam, if a petitioner wishes to provide Guam DOL  input on the adverse
effect, a signed statement from an of ficial with Guam DOL  describing the adverse ef fect of the
military realignment to the applicable agreement, contract, or subcontract. 
If claiming eligibility directly connected to, supporting, or associated with, or due to an adverse ef fect
related to, the military realignment, and the petition includes multiple agreements or otherwise applies8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 439/2618