inconsistent evidence, a credible, sworn statement from the qualifying relative of his or her intent to
relocate or separate would generally suf fice to demonstrate what the qualifying relative plans to do. 
Ultimately , the of ficer must be persuaded that it is more likely than not that a qualifying relative will
suffer extreme hardship resulting from the denial of admission. In a case in which the applicant
chooses to rely on evidence showing that extreme hardship would result from relocation, the of ficer
must determine based on a preponderance of the evidence that relocation would occur . The same
principle applies if the applicant chooses to rely on evidence showing that extreme hardship would
result from separation. If the evidence presented fails to persuade the of ficer, the of ficer should
provide an opportunity for the applicant to submit additional evidence—either to show that relocation
or separation would occur , or to demonstrate that extreme hardship would result under both scenarios.
Finally , special considerations may arise in cases involving those limited statutory waivers for which a
child may serve as a qualifying relative.[8] In such cases, a parent who asserts that he or she will
separate from a child so that the child may remain in the United States bears the burden of
overcoming the general presumption that the child will relocate with the parent. Among other factors,
the parent should generally be expected to explain the arrangements for the child’ s care and support. 
The failure to provide a credible plan for the care and support of the child would cast doubt on the
parent’ s contention that he or she will actually leave the child behind in the United States.[9] Moreover ,
if the parent represents that the child will be left behind, USCIS may require the parent to state that
understanding in a statement made under penalty of perjury .[10] Such a statement is
not required, however , if the parent credibly represents that the child will be left behind in the care of
the other parent[11] (which may itself give rise to extreme hardship depending on the totality of the
circumstances).
C. Effect on Extreme Hardship if Qualifying Relative Dies
Generally , the applicant must show extreme hardship to a qualifying relative who is alive at the time
the waiver application is both filed and adjudicated.[12] Unless a specific exception applies, an
applicant cannot show extreme hardship if the qualifying relative has died. 
INA 204(l)  provides the only exception. In general, INA 204(l)  allows USCIS to approve, or reinstate
approval of, an immigrant visa petition and certain other benefits even though the petitioner or the
principal beneficiary has died. INA 204(l)  also provides that it applies generally to “any related
applications,” thereby including applications for waivers related to immigrant visa petitions. 
Under this provision, an alien who establishes that the requirements of INA 204(l)  have been met
may apply for a waiver even though the qualifying relative for purposes of extreme hardship has
died. Moreover , in cases in which the deceased individual is both the qualifying relative for purposes
of INA 204(l)  and the qualifying relative for purposes of the extreme hardship determination, the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2118/2618