initial breach determination is suf ficient to overcome USCIS’  initial determination that the bond was
breached.
If the obligor or agent or co-obligor has not provided suf ficient evidence to rebut USCIS’  determination
that the public charge bond was breached or if the obligor did not respond by the date required in the
Notice of Intent to Declare the Public Charge Bond Breached, USCIS declares the bond breached,
and informs the obligor and agent or co-obligor , if any , of the right to appeal the bond breach
determination. USCIS must provide a copy of the determination to all parties involved in the bond.
If the information reveals that the alien has not breached the public charge bond conditions, the public
charge bond remains in place. USCIS must provide a copy of the determination to all parties involved
of in the bond.
4. Appeal of Breach Determination
An obligor[8] may appeal a breach determination to USCIS’  Administrative Appeals Of fice (AAO) by
filing a Notice of Appeal or Motion ( Form I-290B ) together with the appropriate fee and required
evidence.[9] If the obligor fails to appeal the bond breach determination within the requisite appeal
period, or if the appeal is filed untimely , the bond breach determination becomes administratively final
unless a motion is granted to reopen or reconsider the proceedings, if permitted under the regulations.
If the obligor appeals the bond breach determination in a timely fashion, USCIS reviews the decision
before the appeal is forwarded to the AAO.[10] If an appeal is warranted, USCIS may treat the appeal
as a motion and then take favorable action, which would resolve the appeal. USCIS may reopen a
proceeding or reconsider a decision on their own motion.[11]
If the of ficer is not inclined to take a favorable action, the appeal should be forwarded to the AAO for a
decision on the obligor ’s appeal.
5. Collecting Bond Amount
An administratively final determination that a bond has been breached creates a claim in favor of the
United States. The claim may not be released or discharged by an immigration of ficer.
Cash Bonds
In a cash bond, the actual face value of the bond is deposited with USCIS to be held in case of a bond
breach. Upon an administratively final decision that the bond has been breached, the money that was
deposited for purposes of the bond becomes the means to satisfy the claim that the bond breach
created in favor of the U.S. government. At that time, the entire bond amount is forfeited by the obligor .
However , USCIS must return the interest accrued on the deposited amount. After all business is
concluded, the obligor is released from the public charge bond.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2045/2618