individually , without considering how all the factors relate to each other , it becomes dif ficult to weigh
the positive and negative factors properly .
Once the of ficer has weighed each factor individually , the of ficer should consider all the factors
cumulatively to determine whether the unfavorable factors outweigh the favorable ones. If, after
weighing all the factors, the of ficer determines that the positive factors outweigh the negative factors,
then the requestor merits a favorable exercise of discretion. If the negative factors outweigh the
positive factors, then the of ficer may decline to favorably exercise discretion and deny the benefit
request. There may be instances where the gravity of a negative factor is of such significance that the
factor by itself weighs heavily against a favorable exercise of discretion.[69]
Cases that are denied on the basis of an unfavorable exercise of discretion must include an of ficer’s
explanation of why USCIS is not exercising discretion in the requestor ’s favor .[70] The denial notice
must clearly set forth the positive and negative factors considered and explain why the negative
factors outweigh the positive factors.
4. Supervisory Review[71]
Officers should discuss complex or dif ficult cases with their supervisors, as needed, particularly those
involving criminality or national security issues, regardless of whether the outcome is favorable or
unfavorable to the applicant. As appropriate, supervisors may raise issues with USCIS local counsel.
Sometimes a case, especially when coupled with government errors or delay and compelling
humanitarian factors, may justify an exercise of discretion resulting in an extraordinarily favorable
outcome for the applicant. Of ficers considering such action should carefully confirm the availability of
such action under the law , weigh the factors as in every discretionary decision, consult with
supervisors or counsel, and make a record of the analysis and consultation.
D. Documenting Discretionary Determinations
When issuing a decision that involves a discretionary determination, a careful explanation of the
officer’s findings and analysis (communicating the positive and negative factors considered and how
the of ficer weighed these factors) helps ensure that the decision is legally suf ficient and appropriate.
The discretionary determination gives the of ficer authority to ultimately approve a benefit or form of
relief or deny a benefit or form of relief when the applicant otherwise meets eligibility requirements.
Officers, however , cannot exercise that authority arbitrarily or capriciously .
Favorable Exercise of Discretion
If no negative factors are present, the of ficer may provide a simple statement in the file noting the
absence of negative factors (for example, comments indicating that the applicant is eligible, that there
are no negative factors, and that therefore USCIS grants the benefit in the exercise of discretion).8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 305/2618