Adjudication of Civil Surgeon Applications
information such as documentary evidence establishing any of the eligibility requirements. 
If the physician does not meet all of the eligibility requirements, the of ficer should deny the
application. Otherwise, go to Step 2.
Step 2: Determine whether the application warrants a favorable exercise of discretion.[11] In
general, a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted unless there are adverse factors that
prevent it.
An unfavorable exercise of discretion may , for instance, be applied to any applications submitted by
physicians who had a prior civil surgeon designation revoked by USCIS, and where the concerns
underlying that revocation have not been resolved.
If there is insuf ficient evidence in the application to make this determination, the of ficer may request
additional information through the issuance of a Request for Evidence (RFE). 
Examples
Example:  The physician had a prior civil surgeon designation revoked due to the physician’ s
confirmed participation in an immigration fraud scheme. The of ficer should deny the civil surgeon
application as a matter of discretion. The fee will not be refunded since USCIS performed an
adjudication of the application.
Example:  The physician had a prior civil surgeon designation revoked due to suspension of her
medical license. However , the of ficer determines that the underlying reason for the suspension has
been resolved, is unlikely to recur , and the physician now has a current, unrestricted medical
license. In this case, the of ficer may approve the civil surgeon application if the physician otherwise
meets the eligibility requirements.
2. Approval
If the application for civil surgeon designation is approved, the of ficer should do the following: 
Notification
Notify the physician in writing of the approval.
Files
Either create a new file for the physician who was granted civil surgeon designation; or , if a file for the
physician already exists, update the file to reflect the grant of designation. 8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1937/2618