religious denomination or interdenominational mission organization having a bona fide
organization within the United States as a missionary , brother , nun, or sister .[34]
The applicant’ s spouse and dependent unmarried sons and daughters are also entitled to such
benefits during the period when they were residing abroad as dependent members of the principal
applicant’ s household. The application’ s approval notice includes the applicant and any dependent
family members who were also granted the benefit.
The approval of an application to preserve residence does not relieve an applicant (or any family
members) from any applicable required period of physical presence, unless the applicant was
employed by , or under contract with, the U.S. government[35] or performing religious duties.[36]
In addition, the approval of an application to preserve residence does not guarantee that the applicant
(or any family members) will not be found, upon returning to the United States, to have lost LPR status
through abandonment. USCIS may find that an applicant who claimed special tax exemptions as a
"nonresident alien" to have lost LPR status through abandonment. The applicant may overcome that
presumption with acceptable evidence establishing that he or she did not abandon his or her LPR
status.[37]
Approval of an application to preserve residence also does not relieve the LPR of the need to have an
appropriate travel document when the LPR seeks to return to the United States.[38] A Permanent
Resident Card (PRC) card, generally , is acceptable as a travel document only if the person has been
absent for less than 1 year .[39] If an LPR expects to be absent for more than 1 year , the LPR should
also apply for a reentry permit. The LPR must actually be in the United States when he or she applies
for a reentry permit.[40]
E. Residence in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
As of November 28, 2009, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) is defined as
a state in the United States for naturalization purposes.[41] Previously , residence in the CNMI only
counted as residence in the United States for naturalization purposes for an alien who was an
immediate relative of a U.S. citizen residing in the CNMI.
All other aliens, including any non-immediate relative LPRs, were considered to be residing outside of
the United States for immigration purposes. Therefore, some LPRs residing in the CNMI, before the
Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (CNRA) was enacted, were considered to have
abandoned their lawful permanent resident status if they continuously lived in the CNMI.
Under the current law , USCIS no longer considers lawful permanent residents to have abandoned
their LPR status solely by residing in the CNMI. This provision is retroactive and provides for the
restoration of permanent resident status. However , the provision did not provide that the residence
would count towards the naturalization continuous and physical presence requirements. Therefore,8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2337/2618