[^ 4] See the USCIS website for information on Social Media Policy .
Chapter 3 - Types of Assistance
A. In-Person
In general, benefit requestors can use the USCIS Contact Center resources, including USCIS online
tools , to manage and obtain information about their cases. Specific customer service options are
available for certain programs and populations. The Contact Us  webpage provides more information
on how to obtain assistance.
To prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information, USCIS follows privacy and confidentiality
protections when managing case-specific inquiries.[1]
1. Local Field Office
In-person appointments at field of fices[2] are reserved for services that require a person’ s physical
presence in the of fice to resolve an inquiry .
USCIS does not allow walk-in appointments. Benefit requestors must have an appointment to visit a
USCIS field of fice. Benefit requestors generally may request an appointment using the My
Appointment  online tool. Benefit requestors who are not able to request an appointment online may
call the USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY : 1-800-767-1833) for additional assistance.
Benefit requestors should bring any applicable forms, payment, photos, and evidence, including
documentation related to their requested service to their appointment. For example, a person
requesting an emergency travel document  should bring evidence to support the emergency request.
If USCIS closes an of fice or changes of fice hours, USCIS informs the public of such on the USCIS
Office Closing  webpage. Benefit requestors should check this webpage on the day of their
appointment for any of fice closures and other important information.
2. Community Outreach
USCIS engages in community outreach programs to educate and increase public awareness, increase
dialogue and visibility , and solicit feedback on USCIS operations. During outreach events in local
communities, USCIS employees do not respond to case-specific inquiries. Anyone asking case-
specific questions at outreach events should be directed to submit their inquiry through appropriate
channels.
The topics of community outreach programs are varied. Information on past and future outreach
events can be found on the USCIS website . The website provides a list of future engagements and8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 158/2618