extenuating circumstances, such as the closure of the facility or hardship to the FMG, and
the FMG relocates to another qualifying area for the balance of the 3-year term.[31]
Obtain a contract from the health care facility located in an area designated by HHS as an
HPSA, MUA, or MUP . There are three exceptions to this requirement:
If the U.S. Department of V eteran's Affairs (V A) requests the waiver so that the FMG could
practice medicine with the V A, the FMG must practice medicine with the V A for at least 3
years, but does not need to do so in an HHS-designated shortage area.
If an interested federal agency requests the waiver so that the agency can employ the
FMG full time to practice clinical medicine, the FMG may fulfill the obligation by working for
the agency for at least 3 years in that capacity , rather than by practicing medicine in an
HHS-designated shortage area.
If an interested federal or state agency requests the waiver for an FMG who agrees to
practice specialty medicine in a facility located in an HHS-designated geographic area, the
FMG may fulfill the obligation by practicing specialty medicine in such a facility for at least
3 years.[32] In such a case, the request must demonstrate a shortage of health care
professionals able to provide services in the appropriate medical specialty to the patients
who will be served by the FMG
Obtain a no objection letter from the FMG’ s home country if the home government funded the
FMG’ s exchange program.
Agree to begin employment at the health care facility within 90 days of receipt of the waiver , not
the date the FMG’ s J-1 visa expires.
Employment is not required to begin within 90 days of receipt of the waiver . The FMG must
agree to begin employment within this 90-day period.[33]
The maximum number of INA 212(e)  waivers that may be granted under INA 214(l)  at the request of
each state is limited to 30 during each fiscal year (the Conrad 30 program). There is no limit to the
number of waivers granted to FMGs under the federal program. An FMG who obtains a waiver under
INA 214(l)  may not obtain permanent residence, whether by an immigrant visa or by adjustment of
status, until the FMG has satisfied the statutory service obligation.
To prevent claims that an FMG did not know the obligations that accompany a waiver under  INA
214(l),  the foreign residence requirement waiver application approval Notice of Action (Form I-797)
contains an addendum. This addendum specifies the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver and
identifies the appropriate public law number to indicate whether a state department of public health or
an IGA  made the request for a waiver . In addition, the applicable public law number is listed on the
approval notice.
2. Evidence
Before FMGs may engage in employment, the petitioner must submit a Petition for a Nonimmigrant
Worker ( Form I-129 ) along with the DOS-WRD favorable recommendation letter , in order to request a8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 357/2618