Note: On Nov . 2, 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated the
Public Charge Final Rule nationwide. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit later
issued a stay of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’  Nov . 2, 2020
decision. On Mar . 9, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit lifted the stay and
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’  order vacating the Public Charge
Final Rule went into effect. USCIS immediately stopped applying the Public Charge Final Rule
to all pending applications and petitions that would have been subject to the rule. For
information on related litigation affecting implementation, see the Inadmissibility on Public
Charge Grounds Final Rule: Litigation  webpage. The alert text below and related guidance are
no longer in effect.
This update incorporates into V olumes 2, 8, and 12 policy guidance that U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (USCIS) announced February 5, 2020, implementing the Inadmissibility of Public
Charge Grounds Final Rule. This guidance is in ef fect as of February 24, 2020 and applies nationwide
to all applications and petitions postmarked on or after that date. Certain classes of aliens are exempt
from the public charge ground of inadmissibility (such as refugees, asylees, certain V AWA self-
petitioners, U petitioners, and T applicants) and therefore, are not subject to the Final Rule. For more
information about the classes of [noncitizens] who are exempt from the Final Rule, see the appendices
related to applicability . For information on related litigation af fecting implementation, see the USCIS
webpage  on the injunction.
Read More
Affected Sections
2 USCIS-PM A.4 - Chapter 4 - Extension of Stay , Change of Status, and Extension of Petition V alidity
8 USCIS-PM G  - Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility
12 USCIS-PM D.2  - Chapter 2 - Lawful Permanent Resident Admission for Naturalization
POLICY  ALER T - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility
February 05, 2020
Note: On Nov . 2, 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated the
Public Charge Final Rule nationwide. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit later
issued a stay of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’  Nov . 2, 2020
decision. On Mar . 9, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit lifted the stay and
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’  order vacating the Public Charge
Final Rule went into effect. USCIS immediately stopped applying the Public Charge Final Rule8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 100/2618