This may result in an impairment of the qualifying relative’ s ability to serve the U.S. military , or to be
quickly called into active duty in the case of reservists, which also af fects military preparedness. This
is often the case even if the qualifying relative’ s military service already separates, or will separate,
him or her from the applicant. In such circumstances, the applicant’ s removal abroad may magnify the
stress of military service to a level that would constitute extreme hardship.
4. DOS T ravel W arnings
DOS issues travel warnings to notify travelers of the risks of traveling to certain foreign countries.[16]
Reasons for issuing travel warnings include, but are not limited to, unstable government, civil war ,
ongoing intense crime or violence, or frequent terrorist attacks. A travel warning remains in place until
changes in circumstances suf ficiently mitigate the need for such a warning. With respect to some
travel warnings, DOS advises of travel risks to a specific region or regions of the country at issue.
In some situations, DOS issues travel warnings that do more than notify travelers of the risks of
traveling to a particular country or region(s) within a country . Rather , DOS af firmatively recommends
against travel or af firmatively recommends that U.S. citizens depart. DOS may make such travel
warnings country-wide. Such travel warnings may contain language in which:
DOS urges avoiding all travel to the country or region because of safety and security concerns;
DOS warns against all but essential travel to the country or region;
DOS advises deferring all non-essential travel to the country or region; and/or
DOS advises U.S. citizens currently in the country or region to depart.
In cases where a qualifying relative would relocate to a country or region that is the subject of such
DOS recommendations against travel, the travel warning would often weigh heavily in support of a
finding of extreme hardship. In assessing the dangers in the country of relocation, USCIS of ficers
should give weight to DOS travel warnings, taking into account the nature and severity of such
warnings.
Generally , the fact that the country of relocation is currently subject to a DOS country-wide travel
warning against travel may indicate that a qualifying relative would face significantly increased danger
if he or she were to relocate to that country with the applicant. This significantly increased danger
would often support a finding of extreme hardship.
If the relevant travel warning covers only a part or region of the country of relocation, the USCIS of ficer
must determine whether the qualifying relative would relocate to the part or region that is subject to the
warning. If the of ficer finds that this part or region is one to which the qualifying relative plans to return
despite the increased danger (for example, because of family relationships or employment
opportunities), that may indicate that the qualifying relative would face significantly increased danger if
he or she were to relocate to that part or region. This significantly increased danger would often
support a finding of extreme hardship.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2130/2618