services in their own home or community . HCBS can promote employment and decrease reliance on
costly government-funded institutional care.
In contrast to institutional care paid for by Medicaid, Medicaid-funded HCBS do not include payments
for room and board, and therefore do not provide an individual’ s total care for basic needs that is
generally provided by an institution.
2. Institutionalization in V iolation of Federal Law
There are some circumstances in which an individual may be institutionalized long-term at government
expense in violation of federal anti-discrimination laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act
(PDF)  (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (PDF) .
The ADA requires public entities, and Section 504 requires recipients of federal funds, to provide
services to individuals in the most integrated setting appropriate to their needs. Unjustified
institutionalization of individuals with disabilities by a public entity is a form of discrimination under the
ADA and Section 504.[15]
As noted above, the likelihood that an alien will become a public charge at any time is determined by
assessing the alien’ s likelihood of becoming primarily dependent on the government for subsistence
as evidenced by long-term institutionalization at government expense (as well as any receipt of public
cash assistance for income maintenance). However , in making this determination, USCIS considers
evidence submitted by the applicant that their current, past, or potential future institutionalization
violates federal law .[16]
If an applicant believes that their institutionalization was in violation of federal law , they must submit
evidence in support of this claim with their Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust
Status ( Form I-485 ).[17] USCIS may also request such evidence after the filing of Form I-485. If
USCIS issues a Request for Evidence, that request would only be sent to the applicant for adjustment
of status (and their attorney or accredited representative).
Services available to some individuals may not be in full compliance with disability rights laws, such
that, as noted, individuals who might otherwise receive HCBS are instead institutionalized at
government expense. Individuals may submit evidence that their institutionalization violates federal
law, and USCIS considers such evidence in the totality of the circumstances. Specifically , where such
evidence is credible, it will have the tendency of of fsetting evidence of current or past
institutionalization.
Evidence suggesting that an individual may have experienced long-term institutionalization in violation
of federal law may include, but is not limited to, documentation showing:
The state’ s HCBS waiting lists prevent an individual from receiving community-based services
for which they are eligible;[18]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2011/2618