2. Reliability of Evidence
Officers should carefully weigh the evidence and may assign dif fering weight to evidence in the record,
depending on the reliability of that evidence.
An of ficer should consider all evidence regarding the circumstances of the child’ s eligibility , not just a
foreign court order , decree, or certificate. For example, an of ficer should consider secondary evidence,
such as police reports or administrative or lower court documents that led to the foreign government's
decision to terminate parental rights.
USCIS generally accepts a foreign decree or order on its face as primary evidence of a determination
by a foreign court. Absent specific material information that a court decree is legally invalid[16] or was
obtained by fraud, an of ficer may generally rely on such authentic decrees as evidence of a
determination by a foreign government. An of ficer may , however , question the validity of a decree or
order for various reasons, such as: 
Lack of jurisdiction by the foreign court or authority;
Lack of parental consent to the adoption;
No or improper notice of termination of parental rights;
Evidence of corruption, fraud, or material misrepresentation;
Lack of due process or appropriate safeguards in the country or jurisdiction issuing the order; or
Other credible and probative evidence to question the reliability of the documentation.
If there is reason to doubt the validity of the decree or order , the of ficer may request additional
evidence.
D. Orphan Determination
1. Purpose
The Determination on Child for Adoption (Form I-604) (also known as an orphan determination or
Form I-604) must be completed in every orphan case.[17] The Form I-604 determination:
Verifies that the child meets the eligibility criteria to be classified as an orphan under U.S.
immigration law; and
Ensures that the P AP meets all the immigration-related legal requirements to petition for a child
to immigrate to the United States.
Generally , DOS completes the Form I-604 orphan determinations on behalf of USCIS in the child’ s
country of origin or where the adoption or grant of legal custody is completed to provide integrity in the
orphan adjudication and to ensure that foreign documents submitted to support the orphan petition are
sufficient.
2. U.S. Government Agency Roles8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 966/2618