traveling to the United States for any part of the naturalization process.
In general, to be eligible to naturalize abroad, the LPR spouse of a service member must:
Be authorized to accompany the service member abroad per the service member's of ficial
orders;
Be residing abroad with the service member in marital union; and
Meet the requirements of either INA 316(a)  or INA 319(a)  at the time of filing the naturalization
application, except for the residence and physical presence requirements.
Prior to the enactment of the overseas provisions in 2008, with some exceptions, a service member ’s
LPR spouse residing abroad with the service member had to apply for naturalization through
expedited naturalization provisions.[23] This applied to a spouse who was eligible through the general
provision[24] or through 3 years of marriage to a U.S. citizen[25] but whose time abroad rendered him
or her unable to meet the respective continuous residence or physical presence requirements.
An LPR filing as the spouse of a service member residing abroad[26] was exempt from the continuous
residence and physical presence requirements, but he or she was still required to return to the United
States for his or her interview , naturalization, and any other related procedure.[27] The overseas
naturalization provisions allows such an LPR spouse to apply for naturalization from abroad and
complete any procedure relating to his or her application for naturalization while residing abroad.[28]
5. Application and Filing
Form N-400 , Application for Naturalization
Eligible spouses of members of the U.S. armed forces who live abroad and want to naturalize abroad
should submit an Application for Naturalization ( Form N-400 ) in accordance with the instructions on
the form and with appropriate fee.[29]
Spouses should indicate that they seek to naturalize through the general provision[30] or on the basis
of their marriage to a U.S. citizen for 3 years[31] and to rely on INA 319(e)  to meet the applicable
continuous residence and physical presence requirements. Spouses should also write in:
“319(e)  Overseas Naturalization,” if so desired. Only those eligible spouses who prefer naturalization
abroad should apply for that option. Spouses who prefer to apply for naturalization in the United States
may still elect to do so.
Form DD-1278, Certificate of Overseas Assignment to Support Application to File Petition for
Naturalization
Spouses should include Form DD-1278 along with their naturalization application. Form DD-1278
must be completed and signed by the military of ficial certifying the applicant has “concurrent travel
orders” and is authorized to join their spouse military service member abroad.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2561/2618