that where the facts are at issue in a case, the of ficer should request the original document. For
example, if evidence of a divorce decree is required and a submitted photocopy looks altered, the
officer should request the original divorce decree.
1. When Originals Required and Photocopies Permitted
When a requestor files a paper form[21] with USCIS, original documents may be required. Examples
of supporting documents that requestors must generally present in the original are:
Medical examinations;
Affidavits; and
Labor certifications.
Unless otherwise required, the requestor may submit a legible photocopy of any other supporting
document at the time of filing.[22]
2. Requesting Original Documents
USCIS may , at any time, request submission of an original document for review . The request sets a
deadline for submission of the original document.
If a requestor does not submit the requested original of the document by the deadline, USCIS may
deny the benefit request as abandoned, based on the record, or both.[23]
3. Returning Original Documents
Upon completion of the adjudication, USCIS may return original documents if the submission was in
response to a USCIS request. All retained originals become part of the record. Although USCIS does
not automatically return originals that it did not request, of fices are encouraged to voluntarily return
submitted original documents.[24]
To request return of originals that were not returned during the adjudication process, the requestor
may submit a Request for the Return of Original Documents ( Form G-884 ).
D. Types of Evidence
Strict rules of evidence used in judicial proceedings do not apply in administrative proceedings,
including benefits requests before USCIS. Usually , requestors may submit any oral or documentary
evidence for USCIS’  consideration when determining eligibility for the benefit sought.
Because the strict rules of evidence do not apply in administrative proceedings, of ficers may consider
a wide range of oral or documentary evidence.
1. Documentary Evidence8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 273/2618