All preliminary case inquiries are fielded by the USCIS Contact Center for Form I-730 petitions. Should
Contact Center staf f be unable to resolve the inquiry , a service request is submitted to the appropriate
office with jurisdiction for resolution. The domestic USCIS of fices that process and make decisions on
Form I-730 petitions may only respond to inquiries received through a service request from the USCIS
Contact Center . International USCIS of fices may respond to email inquiries from I-730 petitioners.
Due to certain confidentiality provisions that apply to asylees and refugees,[41] USCIS cannot release
any information contained in or pertaining to Form I-730 petitions until USCIS verifies the identity of
the requestor of information and the requestor ’s authorization to receive the protected information. The
petitioner or their authorized representative may request information on the petition. USCIS must
verify identity and authorization before responding to any inquiry , expedite request, referral, or other
communication related to the Form I-730 petition. After identity and authorization verification, USCIS
Contact Center personnel may respond to inquiries.
Form I-730 petitioners or their authorized representatives may request customer service via the
USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 (TTY : 1-800-767-1833). To access Contact Center services,
petitioners or their authorized representatives calling about Form I-730 should have their receipt
notice(s) on hand for reference during the call. They should also have a copy of the pending or
approved petition that they are calling about readily available, if possible.
Representative refers to an attorney or accredited representative who has properly filed a Form G-28
on behalf of a petitioner and who remains in good standing or is not otherwise ineligible to represent
persons with matters before USCIS.
Asylum of fices do not process Form I-730 petitions. USCIS Contact Center personnel should not
direct the caller to appear in person or contact asylum of fices to inquire or seek information about
Form I-730 petitions.
Additionally , initial domestic processing of Form I-730 following-to-join asylee and following-to-join
refugee petitions is completed in of fices that are not public facing. USCIS Contact Center personnel
should not direct the caller to appear at USCIS service centers or RAIO of fices in the United States
relating to Form I-730 petitions.
USCIS Contact Center Status Inquiries for Form I-590 Applications
USCIS Contact Center personnel may not respond to any status inquiries and may not confirm or
deny the existence of an application or petition. Instead, USCIS Contact Center personnel should
obtain all relevant information from the inquirer and refer the inquiry to the USCIS Headquarters
International and Refugee Affairs Division (IRAD) for response.
Inquiries Regarding Subsequent Applications or Petitions Based on Underlying Form I-589, Form I-
590, or Form I-7308/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 188/2618