Generally , if a benefit request does not have a legal basis for approval, and the of ficer determines
there is no possibility additional evidence could establish a legal basis for approval, the of ficer should
issue a denial without first issuing an RFE or NOID.
This includes any filing in which the benefit requestor has no legal basis for the benefit sought or
submits a request for an inactive or terminated program. For example, this includes family-based
petitions filed for family members based on claimed relationships under categories not provided by
statute (such as a grandparent filing a petition for a grandchild).
2. Abandonment Denials[6]
USCIS denies the benefit request as abandoned if the requestor fails to appear for a required
interview or biometrics appointment or fails to provide an original document or other evidence when
requested to do so.[7] When USCIS denies an application for abandonment, USCIS must notify the
requestor , and the authorized representative, as appropriate, of the decision in writing.[8] Such a
denial is without prejudice to a later re-filing of the benefit request.[9] The priority or processing date of
a withdrawn or abandoned benefit request may not be applied to a later benefit request.[10]
3. Discretionary Denials
Many immigration benefits require requestors to demonstrate that their request merits a favorable
exercise of discretion. For these benefits, a discretionary analysis is a separate, additional component
of adjudicating the benefit request. Whether to favorably exercise discretion is typically assessed after
an of ficer has determined that the requestor meets all applicable threshold eligibility requirements.
The discretionary analysis involves the review of all relevant, specific facts and circumstances in an
individual case, both favorable and unfavorable to the exercise of discretion. However , there are
limitations on how the of ficer may exercise discretion; the of ficer may not exercise discretion arbitrarily ,
inconsistently , or in reliance on biases or assumptions.
If the of ficer denies a request as a matter of discretion, the denial will explain the reasons the request
was not granted.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See 8 CFR 103.3 . Generally , applications for asylum are not subject to denial under 8 CFR
103.2(b) , unlike most other benefit requests. See 8 CFR 208.14(d) .
[^ 2] Except that, if an asylum applicant appears to be deportable, excludable, or removable, the
asylum of ficer must either grant asylum or refer the application to an immigration judge for
adjudication in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings. See 8 CFR 208.14 .8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 315/2618