The child was under 18 years of age when the parent or parents naturalized; and
The child was residing in the United States following a lawful admission for permanent
residence at the time the parent or parents naturalized or thereafter began to reside permanently
in the United States while under the age of 18.
The sections below explain each of these requirements. There is no specific order in which the
requirements of the law must have been satisfied for citizenship, as long as all requirements were
satisfied before the child’ s 18th birthday .[4]
B. Naturalization of Both Parents
Unlike the CCA, which requires only one parent to be a U.S. citizen by birth or naturalization, former
INA 321 generally required both parents to naturalize before the child turned 18 for the child to derive
citizenship.[5] This includes two alien parents who naturalized, or one alien parent and a U.S. citizen
parent who lost U.S. citizenship, and later both parents naturalized. In certain circumstances,
discussed below , the child could derive citizenship when only one of the parents naturalized.
C. Naturalization of Surviving Parent
A child born outside the United States derived U.S. citizenship under former INA  321 when the
surviving parent naturalized if the other parent was deceased.[6] The surviving parent did not
necessarily have to naturalize after the death of the other parent. The surviving parent could have
been a U.S. citizen through naturalization before the other parent died. A child whose alien parent died
after the naturalization of the surviving parent derived citizenship on the date of the death of the alien
parent, if the child was under the age of 18, and met all other requirements for derivation.
D. Naturalization of Parent Having Legal Custody Where There Has Been a Legal
Separation of the Parents
Former INA  321 also provided for a child to derive citizenship if there was a legal separation of the
parents and the parent having legal custody of the child naturalized.[7]
1. Legal Separation or Divorce of the Parents
In order for parents to legally separate, they must be married or in a legally recognized relationship,
from which they could legally separate. If parents were never lawfully married there can be no “legal
separation” or divorce. The term “legal separation” means “a formal, judicial alteration of the marital
relationship.”[8]
An informal separation is not suf ficient to render the parties legally separated.[9] For purposes of
former INA  321, a relevant court must have determined the legal separation (or the divorce).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2516/2618