The applicant must understand that he or she is taking the Oath freely without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion;
The applicant must understand that he or she is sincerely and absolutely renouncing all foreign
allegiance;
The applicant must understand that he or she is giving true faith and allegiance to the United
States, its Constitution and laws; and
The applicant must understand that he or she is discharging all duties and obligations of
citizenship including military and civil service when required by the law .
The applicant’ s true faith and allegiance to the United States includes supporting and defending the
principles of the Constitution by demonstrating an acceptance of the democratic, representational
process established by the U.S. Constitution, and the willingness to obey the laws which result from
that process.[5]
B. Selective Service Registration
1. Males Required to Register
In general, males must register with Selective Service within 30 days of their 18th birthday but not
after reaching 26 years of age. The U.S. government suspended the registration in April of 1975 and
resumed it in 1980. An applicant who refused to or knowingly and willfully failed to register for
Selective Service negates his disposition to the good order and happiness of the United States,
attachment to the principles of the Constitution, good moral character , and willingness to bear arms on
behalf of the United States.[6]
Applicants may register for Selective Service at their local post of fice, return a Selective Service
registration card received by mail, or online at the Selective Service System website.[7] Confirmation
of registration may be obtained by calling (847) 688-6888 or online at sss.gov . The of ficer may also
accept other persuasive evidence presented by an applicant as proof of registration. 
USCIS assists with the registration process by transmitting the appropriate data to the Selective
Service System (SSS) for male applicants between the ages of 18 and 26 who apply for adjustment of
status. After registering the eligible male, Selective Service will send an acknowledgement to the
applicant that can be used as his of ficial proof of Selective Service registration.
2. Failure to Register for Selective Service
USCIS will deny a naturalization application when the applicant refuses to register with Selective
Service or has knowingly and willfully failed to register during the statutory period.[8] The of ficer may8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2357/2618