To ensure the integrity of the program and provide safeguards for U.S. workers, any employer wishing
to employ a student participating in the STEM OPT  extension program must ensure that:
The employer will maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the F-1 student;[38]
The employer has suf ficient resources and personnel available to provide appropriate training in
connection with the specified opportunity at the location or locations specified in the Form I-983 ;
[39]
The F-1 student will not replace a full or part-time, temporary , or permanent U.S. worker;[40] and
The training opportunity will assist the F-1 student in attaining the student’ s training goals.[41]
To employ a STEM OPT  F-1 student, an employer must have and maintain a bona fide employer-
employee relationship with the student.[42] The employer must attest to this fact by signing the Form I-
983. The employer that signs the Form I-983 must be the same entity that provides the practical
training experience to the student.[43]
To establish a bona fide relationship, the employer may not be the F-1 student’ s employer in name
only, nor may the F-1 student work for the employer on a volunteer basis.[44]
An employer must have suf ficient resources and trained or supervisory personnel available to provide
appropriate training in connection with the specified training opportunity . These personnel must be
located where the F-1 student’ s practical training experience will take place, as specified in the Form I-
983.
The personnel who may provide and supervise the training experience may be either employees of
the employer , or contractors whom the employer has directly retained to provide services to the
employer . However , employees or contractors of the employer ’s clients or customers may not provide
and supervise the training experience of the STEM OPT  F-1 student. An F-1 student with OPT  or a
STEM OPT  extension (who is undergoing training in their own right) is never considered qualified to
train another F-1 student with a STEM OPT  extension.
Employers may rely on their existing training programs or policies to satisfy the performance
evaluation, oversight, and supervision requirements, but the F-1 student’ s Form I-983 must
nevertheless be customized for the individual F-1 student. Every Form I-983 must describe the direct
relationship between the STEM OPT  opportunity and the F-1 student’ s qualifying STEM degree, as
well as the relationship between the STEM OPT  opportunity and the F-1 student’ s goals and
objectives for work-based learning.
A STEM OPT  employer may not assign, or otherwise delegate its training responsibilities to a non-
employer third party (for example, a client or customer of the employer , employees of the client or
customer , or contractors of the client or customer).8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 400/2618