Consequently , the voter registration application has been incorporated into many states’  motor vehicle
authority applications for a new or renewed driver ’s license or state ID card.[118] The NVRA  also
requires states to provide citizens with an opportunity to register to vote when applying to other
designated state and local of fices, including those that provide public assistance and services to
persons with disabilities.[119]
The portion of the driver ’s license, ID card, or other benefit application that permits a person to register
to vote generally includes a question asking whether the person is a U.S. citizen and instructions or
warnings that indicate a person should not register to vote if he or she is not a U.S. citizen.
Further , the registration form may note that if the person answered “no” to the citizenship question, he
or she should not complete the form, as the person is not eligible to register to vote.[120] Because of
these safeguards, ineligible voters are generally not registered to vote, unless they confirm that they
are eligible to vote by claiming to be a U.S. citizen.
USCIS does not consider an applicant to have unlawfully registered to vote if the applicant does not
complete or sign the voter registration section (including electronic signature, if applicable) in the
motor vehicle or other state benefit application.[121]
In some jurisdictions, alien residents may register to vote and vote in some local elections.[122] These
registrations, however , are made in dif ferent applications from the general election registration
applications,[123] and do not require a claim to citizenship. Further , registering to vote on a local voter
registration application is not an unlawful act if the applicant is eligible to vote under the relevant law .
3. Unlawful V oting
An applicant commits an unlawful act if he or she votes unlawfully . For unlawful voting, the applicant’ s
conduct must be unlawful under the relevant federal, state, or local election law .[124] Voting in a local
election is not an unlawful act if the applicant is eligible to vote under the relevant law .
Voting by aliens in federal elections is unlawful under 18 U.S.C. 61 1, unless the election was held
partly for some other purpose, aliens were authorized to vote for such other purpose under a state or
local law , and voting for the other purpose was conducted independently of voting for a candidate for
federal of fice.
4. Documentation and Evidence
Where appropriate, the of ficer may take a sworn statement regarding the applicant’ s false claim to
U.S. citizenship, unlawful registration to vote, or unlawful voting. The of ficer may also request any
relevant evidence, including the following:
The voter registration card;8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2419/2618