The applicant must either be a lawful permanent resident (LPR) or have been physically present
at the time of enlistment, reenlistment, or extension of service or induction into the U.S. armed
forces:
In the United States,[2] the Canal Zone, American Samoa, or Swains Island, or
On board a public vessel owned or operated by the United States for noncommercial
service.
The applicant must be able to read, write, and speak basic English.
The applicant must demonstrate knowledge of U.S. history and government.
The applicant must demonstrate good moral character for at least 1 year prior to filing the
application until the time of his or her naturalization.
The applicant must have an attachment to the principles of the U.S. Constitution and be well
disposed to the good order and happiness of the United States during all relevant periods under
the law .
An applicant who files on the basis of military service during hostilities is exempt from the general
naturalization requirements of continuous residence and physical presence.[3]
As with all cases, all pertinent background checks, including applicable U.S. Department of Defense
(DOD) checks (if required)[4] must be completed before USCIS may interview the naturalization
applicant.
B. Honorable Service
1. Qualifying Military Service
Qualifying military service is honorable service in the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve or
active duty service in the U.S. Army , Navy , Marine Corps, Air Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard.
Service in the National Guard may also qualify .[5] In general, international cadets attending U.S.
military academies are not considered to have served in the U.S. armed forces.[6]
Honorable service means service in the U.S. armed forces that is designated as honorable service by
the executive department under which the applicant performed that military service.
INA 329 requires both honorable service and, if the applicant has separated from service, a separation
under honorable conditions.[7] “Honorable,” “General-Under Honorable Conditions,” and
"Uncharacterized"[8] discharge types qualify as a separation under honorable conditions for
immigration purposes. Other discharge types, such as “Other Than Honorable,” “Bad Conduct,” and
“Dishonorable,” do not qualify as a separation under honorable conditions.
2. Multiple Periods of Service8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2537/2618