The form must be signed and dated by the civil surgeon who conducted the immigration medical
examination;[6]
The form must be signed and dated by the applicant who was examined;[7]
If applicable, the form must be signed and dated by the physician(s) completing referral
evaluations;[8]
The form must still be valid;[9] and
The form must be in a sealed envelope as detailed in the form’ s instructions.[10]
Officers should review Form I-693 for compliance with the procedures and requirements outlined in
Centers for Disease Control's (CDC) Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons that were in ef fect as of
the date of the civil surgeon’ s signature. An applicant is not subject to any additional requirements that
do not apply to them on the day the civil surgeon signed Form I-693 unless otherwise specified by the
CDC. Therefore, of ficers should not issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) for the applicant to submit a
new or updated Form I-693 to meet requirements that did not apply to the applicant on the date the
civil surgeon signed the Form I-693. For example, applicants of certain ages must be tested for
gonorrhea and syphilis. If the applicant has not reached the age range for which testing is required as
of the date the civil surgeon signed the Form I-693, the of ficer must not require the applicant to obtain
the tests before final adjudication, even if the applicant reached the appropriate age for which testing
is required at the time of final adjudication.
This policy also applies if there have been updates to CDC's Technical Instructions for Civil Surgeons
(unless otherwise specified by CDC),[11] USCIS policy , or if there is a new edition of Form I-693. As
long as the civil surgeon complied with all procedures and requirements in CDC's Technical
Instructions for Civil Surgeons and used the edition of the form that was current on the date that they
signed Form I-693, the applicant’ s Form I-693 can be accepted as valid for adjudicative purposes.
Request for Evidence
If the above requirements are not met, or if there is evidence that the form or the envelope the form
was placed in has been tampered with, the of ficer should issue an RFE to correct any Form I-693
deficiencies. If possible, the of ficer should return the original Form I-693 to the applicant when issuing
an RFE for corrective action. Whenever an original is returned to the applicant, the of ficer should
retain a copy .
A response to an RFE is acceptable if it is completed by a civil surgeon in one of the following ways:
The civil surgeon annotates the original medical examination in the deficient part(s), and both the
applicant and the civil surgeon re-sign and re-date their respective certifications. The civil
surgeon must place the corrected Form I-693 in a sealed envelope and the applicant delivers the
new envelope to USCIS.
The civil surgeon completes an entirely new Form I-693, and corrects for the original deficiency .
The civil surgeon must place the new Form I-693 in a sealed envelope and the applicant delivers8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1900/2618