Number of interviews and home visits;
Participants, dates, and locations of each contact, interview , and visit; and
If the home study preparer did not interview an AMH in person or observe a child in the home, an
explanation of why it was not feasible.
C. Household Member Information
1. Required Assessment
The home study preparer must assess the impact of each household member (both children and
adults) on the suitability of the P AP’s household.[14] An adult household member may also include a
person who is not yet 18 years old, or a person who does not actually live at the same residence, but
whose presence in the household impacts suitability .[15]
2. Required Home Study Content
The home study must identify each household member (P AP, AMH, and child in the home) by name,
alien registration number (if any), date of birth, and country of birth. For any AMH and child in the
home, the home study must also indicate the relationship to the P AP.[16]
The home study must describe each household member , including how the household member ’s
characteristics impact the overall suitability of the household and the P AP’s ability to care for adopted
children. The home study preparer should include the following:
Each person’ s overall well-being, including physical, mental, emotional, and behavioral health;
Any special needs;
Any criminal history or history of arrest or investigation;
Any history of abuse (sexual, substance, or child abuse) or family violence as an of fender even if
it did not result in an arrest or conviction;
Any evidence of rehabilitation;
Any potential problems areas; and
Any additional information about the person that is relevant to the overall suitability of the home
and the applicant’ s ability to care for adopted children.
D. Family History
1. Required Assessment
To assess the P AP’s family history and ability to parent adopted children,[17] the home study preparer
must assess the P AP’s family and parenting history . This includes any biological children and any
children for whom the P AP was the primary care provider ,[18] even if such children no longer reside in
the P AP’s home.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 907/2618