Generally , USCIS issues written notices in the form of an RFE or NOID to request missing initial[37] or
additional evidence from benefit requestors. However , USCIS has the discretion to deny a benefit
request without issuing an RFE or NOID. If the of ficer determines a benefit request does not have any
legal basis for approval, the of ficer should issue a denial without prior issuance of an RFE or a NOID.
[38]
1. Evaluating Evidence and Eligibility
Unless otherwise specified, of ficers should generally follow these principles in each case:
Understand the specific elements required to demonstrate eligibility for the benefit request.[39]
Understand the standard of proof that applies to the benefit request. In most instances, the
benefit requestor must establish eligibility under the preponderance of the evidence standard.
Under that standard, the benefit requestor must prove it is more likely than not that the requestor
meets each of the required elements.[40]
Review all the evidence to determine if each of the essential elements has been satisfied by the
applicable standard of proof.
If the of ficer determines that the benefit requestor is eligible for the benefit requested (all the essential
elements have been satisfied by the applicable standard of proof, including but not limited to, when
applicable, that a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted), the of ficer approves the benefit
request without issuance of an RFE or NOID.[41]
If the benefit requestor has not established eligibility under the applicable standard of proof, the of ficer
generally issues an RFE or NOID to request evidence of eligibility . However , if the benefit request
does not have a legal basis for approval, and the of ficer determines that there is no possibility that
additional information or explanation will establish a legal basis for approval, then the of ficer generally
should deny the benefit request without first issuing an RFE or NOID.[42]
2. Considerations Before Issuing Requests for Evidence or Notices of Intent to Deny
Instead of or in addition to issuing an RFE or NOID, the of ficer may also:
Perform additional research;
If not already required for the benefit type, interview the benefit requestor or other witnesses; or
Initiate an investigation.
Each option requires varying degrees of resources. Therefore, of ficers should carefully evaluate each
option when deciding next steps.
Performing Additional Research8/13/25, 3:54 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 277/2618