A written advisory opinion(s) from the appropriate consulting entity or entities.[10]
2. Form of Evidence
The evidence submitted with the petition must conform to the following:
Affidavits, contracts, awards, and similar documentation must reflect the nature of the
beneficiary's achievement and be executed by an of ficer or responsible person employed by the
institution, firm, establishment, or organization where the work was performed.
Affidavits written by present or former employers or recognized experts certifying to the
recognition and extraordinary ability or extraordinary achievement of the beneficiary must
specifically describe the beneficiary's recognition and ability or achievement in factual terms and
set forth the expertise of the af fiant and the manner in which the af fiant acquired such
information.
The petitioner may submit a legible photocopy of a document in support of the petition in lieu of
the original. However , the original document must be submitted if requested by USCIS.[11]
3. Contracts
The regulation requires the submission of any written contracts between the petitioner and the
beneficiary but allows for the submission of a summary of the terms of an oral agreement where there
is no written contract.[12] Evidence of an oral agreement may include, but is not limited to, emails
between the contractual parties, a written summation of the terms of the agreement, or any other
evidence that demonstrates that an oral agreement was created.
The summary of the oral agreement must contain:
The terms of fered by the petitioner (employer); and
The terms accepted by the beneficiary (employee).
The summary does not have to be signed by both parties to establish the oral agreement.[13]
4. Consultations
A statutorily mandated consultation process exists for all O nonimmigrant petitions.[14] The source and
contents of the consultation vary , depending upon the type of O petition.
Consultation Process for O Nonimmigrants
Petition T ype Source and Contents of Consultations
O-1A  and O-1B
(Arts)The petitioner must provide a consultation in the form of an advisory opinion
from a U.S. “peer group” in the area of the beneficiary’ s ability (which may
include a labor organization) or a person or persons with expertise in the area
of the beneficiary’ s ability . The contents should, if favorable, describe the8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 566/2618