The general requirements for acquisition of citizenship at birth[20] for a child born in wedlock also
apply to a child born out of wedlock[21] outside of the United States (or one of its outlying
possessions) who claims citizenship through a U.S. citizen father . Specifically , the provisions apply in
cases where:
A blood relationship between the child and the father is established by clear and convincing
evidence;
The child’ s father was a U.S. citizen at the time of the child’ s birth;
The child’ s father (unless deceased) has agreed in writing to provide financial support for the
child until the child reaches 18 years of age; and
One of the following criteria is met before the child reaches 18 years of age:
The child is legitimated under the law of his or her residence or domicile;
The father acknowledges in writing and under oath the paternity of the child; or
The paternity of the child is established by adjudication of a competent court.
In addition, the residence or physical presence requirements contained in the relevant paragraph of
INA 301 continue to apply to children born out of wedlock, who are claiming citizenship through their
fathers.
Written Agreement to Provide Financial Support
In order for a child born out of wedlock outside of the United States (or one of its outlying possessions)
to acquire U.S. citizenship through his or her father , Congress included a requirement that the father
agree in writing to provide financial support for the child until the child reaches the age of 18.[22]
Congress included the language to prevent children from becoming public charges.[23] USCIS
interprets the phrase in the statute “has agreed in writing to provide financial support”[24] to mean that
there must be documentary evidence that supports a finding that the father accepted the legal
obligation to support the child until the age of 18.
The written agreement of financial support may be dated at any time before the child’ s 18th birthday . If
the child is under the age of 18 at the time of filing an Application for Certificate of Citizenship, the
father may provide the written agreement of financial support either concurrently with the filing of the
application or prior to the adjudication of the application. USCIS may request the written agreement of
financial support at the time of issuance of a Request for Evidence or at the time of an interview
(unless the interview is waived).
Alternatively , if the applicant is already over the age of 18, he or she may meet the requirement if one
or more documents support a finding that the father accepted his legal obligation to support the child.
In such cases, the evidence must have existed (and have been finalized) prior to the child’ s 18th
birthday and must have met any applicable foreign law or U.S. law governing the child’ s or father ’s
residence to establish acceptance of financial responsibility .[25]8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2474/2618