This registration process is necessary and available only if both parents were foreign diplomats when
the child was born. If one parent was an accredited diplomat, but the other was a U.S. citizen or
national (but not citizen) of the United States, then the child was “born . . . subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States,” and is a citizen.
C. Legal Authority
8 CFR 101.3  – Creation of record of lawful permanent resident status for person born under
diplomatic status in the United States
8 CFR 264.2  – Application for creation of record of permanent residence
D. Eligibility Requirements
To register permanent residence as a child born in the United States to a foreign diplomatic of ficer
accredited by the Department of State, the applicant must meet the following eligibility requirements:
Eligibility Requirements: Children Born in the United States to Accredited Diplomats
The applicant voluntarily seeks to register permanent residence. 
The applicant was born in the United States.
The applicant maintained continuous residence in the United States since birth.
The applicant is physically present in the United States at the time he or she files the application.
The applicant had a parent who was listed on the Department of State’ s Diplomatic List , also known
as the Blue List, at the time of the applicant’ s birth.
The applicant lost or waived his or her diplomatic immunity .
1. Voluntarily Seeking the Benefit
This is automatically established by the applicant applying to register permanent resident status in the
United States.
2. Born in the United States
The applicant must establish birth in the United States.
3. Continuous Residence in the United States[4]
Generally , absences that would not af fect the status of any other LPR do not break the continuous
residence of an applicant under this program. Some additional guidelines are applicable to this
particular type of case:
Temporary or extended absences from the United States do not break continuous residence if
the diplomatic parent remained accredited to the United States during the applicant’ s absence.8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 1840/2618