Once CDC indicates no additional information is needed, the of ficer may proceed with the next step of
the waiver adjudication.
5. Discretion
As is generally the case for waivers, a waiver for communicable diseases of public health significance
requires an of ficer to consider whether the grant of the waiver is warranted as a matter of discretion.
Hardship to a qualifying relative is not required for this waiver .[13]
CDC’ s response in support of granting the waiver should ordinarily be suf ficient to warrant a favorable
exercise of discretion for the grant of the waiver . However , if an applicant declares openly his or her
unwillingness to commit to treatment, the waiver may be denied as a matter of discretion.[14] If CDC
does not issue a favorable recommendation, the of ficer generally should not grant the waiver as a
matter of discretion.
By statute, it is USCIS’ s decision whether to make the waiver subject to terms, conditions, or controls.
A CDC recommendation concerning terms, conditions, or controls on the granting of the waiver
ordinarily carries great persuasive weight. 
Once a final decision (approval or denial) is made on the waiver , the of ficer should inform CDC of the
decision. The of ficer should provide a brief statement indicating the final action and date of the action
and forward it to CDC by emailing cdcqap@cdc.gov .
 
D. Step-by-Step Checklist
Step-by-Step Checklist
Step 1Check for qualifying relationship to determine whether the applicant is eligible for the
waiver .
Step 2 Gather the necessary documentation for CDC review .
Step 3 Send documentation to CDC.
Step 4 Review CDC response.
Step 5 Analyze whether the waiver should be granted as a matter of discretion.
Step 6 Inform CDC of waiver decision.
Footnotes
[^ 1] See INA 212(g)(1)  and INA 212(a)(1)(A)(i) . INA 212(g)(1)  was also amended to include a specific
provision for battered immigrants. See Section 1505(d) of the V ictims of Trafficking and V iolence8/13/25, 3:55 AM Policy Manual | USCIS
https://www.uscis.gov/book/export/html/68600 2151/2618